BEIS0001079
BEIS0001079

From: Singh, Gurdeep - UKGI[/O=EXCHANGELABS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=8048A41 172B64F6CBBE66445C2086761-
SINGH, GURD]

Sent: Tue 28/06/2022 2:50:48 PM (UTC)

To:

Thomas, Kaye ¢E

Ce:
Carneiro

Subject: RE: OHC and HSS Monthly Monitoring

Hi all

With many thanks to Josh for puling this together, please see below a readout of the OHC/HSS MM meeting on 16"
June. Hope this is helpful and very happy to discuss further.

///

OFFICIAL SNESITIVE — CONFIDENTIAL & SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE
OHC and HSS Monthly Monitoring Meeting Note
16 June 2022

OHC
General Discussion on Feedback

Legal Privilege

BEIS0001079
BEIS0001079

__Legal Privilege _

explained that UKGI
will share a breakdown after the meeting. AW explained that the timeline and HSF availability will need to be
discussed. This will be picked up at the OHC WG planning meeting on 17 June. AW explained that Lord Dyson
had commented on the ENE ToRs — his comments were reasonable and an updated version will be shared
shortly.

* On mediation, SR explained that Hudgells has still yet to nominate a mediator. HSF are considering options
with a view of sharing potential mediators with Hudgells by the end of the week.

* On the removal of the clawback clause, SR explained that POL will be seeking to take it out and are currently
in discussion with HMT/HMRC with regard to the previous clearance provided at interim payment stage. Hoping
to have this resolved soon and POL will prepare retrospective communications once approved.

* On overturned convictions, SR explained that POL had received one further application for an interim
payment that HSF is reviewing. MR confirmed that there are currently 3 interim payment applications in the
pipeline which will come to BEIS shortly for approval of funding.

* On the timeline for the P&P Horizon case review, SR explained that it is split into 3 stages. Stage one is the
only approved stage at the minute in which P&P are undertaking an initial review and advising on the principle.
P&P started on 6 June and SR expects this to finish end-July. HRC will then consider the output of this before
deciding whether to proceed to stage 2 (a more granular review of cases). On the overall number of convictions,
SR explained that there has been no material movement and a small number of cases are currently going
through the courts. BW noted that it may be a nil return from Northern Ireland cases; JG suggested that the
reasons for the nil return (i.e. that they are not Horizon cases as per Hamilton) need to be confirmed in writing.
SR agreed that this needs to be through POL.

¢ BW queried whether further roundtable were planned with other prosecuting bodies. SR explained that it is
more bilateral engagements at the minute. SR also noted that DWP are slightly behind due to legal resource but
that POL is doing all it can to assist.

Other Items Raised by POL
¢ SR flagged the upcoming Quarterly Shareholder Meeting and that he is preparing an OHC/HSS brief for the
POL CEO.

* On the Inquiry, SR explained that POL are currently working on a brief that it will fact-check with BEIS as
needed which should be ready by the end of the month. BW explained that BEIS are working on a similar
timetable and flagged the potential for a Ministerial announcement prior to the hearings.

Legal Privilege

“. BW queried whether any other claims had come forward. AW explained that he was speaking to Paul Marshall
on Monday and that SAR3 is in preparation.

HSS

General Discussion on Feedback
* On the DRP, the group agreed that progress was good. SR explained that the whole end-to-end process has
not been finalised and that HRC next week will consider a number of issues: i) the provision of legal support to
postmasters beyond the £1200 already offered. This will be capped with some flexibility to go above if needed.
SR explained that there will be a funding requirement and that he will work with officials to see if this can be
included as part of the current funding envelope; ii) the pre-mediation principles approval in which POL have
BEIS0001079
BEIS0001079

consulted BEIS/UKGI; and, iii) the process around mediation itself, where again officials have been consulted.

* PG presented the latest numbers in the DRP process. PG noted that 20-30% of disputes/queries are resolved
pre-GFM showing that the personal approach POL is taking at DRP is bearing fruit. PG noted that POL all 4 EMs
held by POL have resulted in the acceptance of the offer. PG explained that it does take time if cases are
referred back to Panel however post-offer cases do have the added benefit of a case handler to consider
applicant engagement. PG confirmed that c. 80% of applicants respond within 20 days.

* On pre-offer, SR explained that the public target for end-June was 65% with an internal stretch target of 70%.
He noted 45 letters had been on hold due to a PI issue but that this has been resolved and these will be issued
shortly. SR also noted that there have been a small number of panel movements in the month but that these
have been manageable. In terms of August, SR confirmed diaries have been checked and agreed but will keep
under review.

« AW asked if there was any support BEIS could provide with regard to unblocking issues at DWP with the
CRU. ACTION — HF to reach out to CRU officials in DWP.

* On the HSS model, RM explained that UKGI had raised some concerns with regard to out of date data which
are being worked through. VT explained the issue, noting that most of problem was due to unquantified claims
becoming quantified. POL will provide a firmer update on HSS model/provision developments once the data is
fully understood. In terms of control points and ensuring data is updated, LT explained that one of the reasons is
because the data in the model is not consistent with the MI. LT suggested that it would be useful from a controls
perspective that the live data from the MI is consistent with the model. GS flagged that this is important from a
HMG finance perspective as well. ACTION — PV to review and confirm provision positions and explain the
increase of ca. £20m outside of the meeting and revert back.

Other Items Raised by POL

* On making public the total quantum offered by POL, SR was supportive and explained that he is liaising with

POL Comms.

* On late applications, SR explained that due to a number of factors POL has changed its position and will

shortly put a paper to HRC proposing to use the HSS process and systems for late applications. SR confirmed

that currently the number is 170 but that this could increase. POL are still working through firm costs but would
look to utilise the existing envelope. A proposal will come to BEIS soon. In terms of reporting, SR proposed that
late applications be ring fenced as to avoid blurring the existing targets.

* On Postmaster Detriment (PD), SR explained that they await the outcome of the PD 1 business case decision.
nd had some
follow up questions that he will be in touch separately on. On PD 2, SR explained ; IRRELEVANT and that is a
growing population in which there is pressure to resolve. He noted that no formal decision has béen taken yet
and that a paper is going to HRC next week. SR explained that it is likely POL would seek further funding and
want to clarify the position ahead of the inquiry hearings. RM explained that in terms the inquiry, it is important
HMG and POL have shared position on this, and suggested SR formally write to CC and TT on this. ACTION —
SR to write to senior BEIS officials with regard to PD2.

« JA confirmed that a letter of comfort has been discussed internally in POL. RM clarified that comfort letters
have typically come alongside funding guarantees so the question for POL is whether what is in the current
comfort letter is sufficient and, if not, what more is needed.

Regards
Gurdeep Singh I Manager

UK Government Investments

1 Victoria Street, London, SW1H OET

This information is confidential and should only be shared on a need to know basis.
This information is highly market sensitive. Unauthorised disclosure of this information may constitute market abuse, an offence
that can attract criminal penalties, and may amount to a breach of the civil service code
BEIS0001079
BEIS0001079

-----Original Appointment:
From: Scott, Joshua - UKG i
Sent: 06 December 2021 11:01
To: Scott, Joshua - UKGI; Evelyn Hocking; Andrew Mortimer; Stuart Lill; Emanuel, Catherine; Cooper, Tom - UKGI;
Creswell, Carl (Services Directorate); benjamin.tidswell E
Nelson Hilton; i graham.hemingway_
maria.runsewe, mon Recaldin; Catherine Connolly; 7 Mackie, Robert -
UKGI; Singh, Gurde rlay, James - UKGI; Morgan, Simon - UKGI; KGI; Jones, Ramona -
UKGI; brooks-white: Wones, Eleri (BEIS); Debenham, Jory (BEIS); Butleri=} Liam (BEIS); ‘Daniel Heath’;
Thomas, Kaye (Busi: nt); Nickels, Jo (BEIS); Pavandeep Dhami; Shepherd, David; Diane Wills; Jacki Adams;
Lawrence, Ciara (BEIS); Fallowfield, Harry (BEIS); Aaron Davey; Nigel Machin

Cc: Elvin, Dominic - UKGI; Victor Turner; ;; James Rolling; Richard Paddington; Tan, Li - UKGI;
Dunseath, Laura - UKGI; Shevaun Carneiro

Subject: OHC and HSS Monthly Monitoring

When: 16 June 2022 11:00-12:30 (UTC+00:00) Dublin, Edinburgh, Lisbon, London.

Where: Microsoft Teams Meeting

Hi all,
Please see the new invite for the OHC and HSS Monthly Monitoring meetings.
Usual agenda as per the below. Will review the agendas and make any changes if needed closer to the time.

11:00 — 11:45 OHC Monitoring
* Introductions and welcomes (BEIS)
« Status Update and Overview (POL)
* General Discussion on Feedback (All)
¢ AOB and Close

11:45 — 12:30 HSS Monitoring
* Introductions and welcomes (UKGI)
* Status Update and Overview (POL)
* General Discussion on Feedback (All)
* AOB and Close

Cheers,

Josh

Microsoft Teams meeting

Join on your computer or mobile app
Click here to join the meeting

Join with a video conferencing device
teams!

Video Conference ID: 121 846 467 9
Alternate VTC instructions
Or call in (audio only)

United Kingdom, London
470#

Find a local number I Reset PIN
BEIS0001079
BEIS0001079

Learn More I Meeting options

