BEIS0001103
BEIS0001103

From: Scott, Joshua - UKGI[/O=EXCHANGELABS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=0224934F23B1444386FD031B130603A8-SCOTT,
JOSH]

Sent: Tue 19/04/2022 9:48:5:

To: Mackie, Robert -
lelson
I ‘Creswell, Carl (Services
'Ben.Foat
‘rodric.wil
(BEIS):
(Business Investm:
‘Shepherd,
Cc:
t ‘James Rolling’,
Subject: RE: [OFF:SEN] RE: OHC and HSS Monthly Monitoring - 7 April Note of Meeting

OFFICIAL SENSITIVE — CONFIDENTIAL & SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

Hi all,

With apologies for the delay please see below a note of the monthly monitoring meeting from 7 April.
If you have any comments or amendments just let me know.

Cheers,

Josh

OHC

Introductions and Welcomes
* CC praised POL for hitting target 3 months in a row on the HSS. He also noted that interim payments continue
to go smoothly. This was noted by SR who also explained that the POL, BEIS and UKGI teams have been
working very collaboratively and thanked officials for their assistance.

Status Update / General Discussion
« SR provided an update regarding the clawback clause in the offer letters. He noted that a paper will be going
to HRC shortly. Separately, he explained that POL is capturing the issues that are being raised by the Inquiry in
the HMU and is allocating resource to address them in real time, providing feedback to individuals or the Inquiry
as appropriate.
« SR explained that HSF have now been given a mandate to proactively reach out to other law firms. HSF are
preparing an update to come to POL and will share this with officials in due course.
* There was some discussion regarding the allegation by Hudgells on the 10 claims which appear to be held up.
RW explained that the issue is relating to both some disclosure that is required and is being progressed but also
the fact that POL require some information from the claimants. POL are also seeking to close off a data
BEIS0001103
BEIS0001103

protection point as well. This was noted by CC who explained that it is likely there will be some media attention
with the 1-year anniversary of the CACD judgment coming up.

* Regarding next steps, SR explained that the 5 April QC session was helpful, and that HSF are progressing the
breakdown of the offers to share with Hudgells shortly. Their feedback will then inform how far apart the parties
are. CC noted that EW had been in touch with HSF to feed in further BEIS/UKGI views. CC explained that BEIS
plans to put advice to the Perm Sec soon for the decisions required. CC also noted that we will need to consider
how this may affect any provision (if at all).

* EW noted that she had discussed the issue regarding cohort numbers with POL and that it looks like an
appropriate number has been landed on using assumptions provided for the accounts. RW explained that advice
had been provided by P&P for POL’s auditors on this issue. Action to share advice with BEIS.

« SR provided an update on tracing. POL received a further 28 responses in March (not necessarily from the
March mailing) and is now at 93% contact rate. SR explained that he was confident that by end-May POL would
be at 99% for its cases. He noted that POL continues to work collaboratively with the CCRC and other
prosecuting bodies to provide guidance to assist reaching out to all postmasters. SR stated that he is now
considering how many times POL should reach out to individuals, noting that there are challenges with respect
to referring to unsuccessful appeals. SR noted that an option that is still available would be the use of a different
third party to reach out.

« RW provided an update on upcoming hearings. Explained that there is one case with Southwark Crown Court
expected to be heard in the next few weeks; and one appeal currently live in front of the CACD. There is no
hearing date set for either.

AOB & Close
« No further questions. CC closed the meeting.

Action: POL to share P&P advice on cohort number of PFAs for POL Accounts with BEIS.

HSS
Introductions and Welcomes
* RJ welcomed attendees. She also praised the team for hitting the March target.

Status Update / General Discussion
* SR explained that simplification of the monthly pack is in progress and will be shared with officials as soon as
possible.
* On the Network Transformation (NT) approach for termination losses, SR explained that a pack has gone to
HRC and that he is looking to reach a decision out of cycle in order for POCC to take a decision on Wednesday.
He noted that the financial impact should be available next week. He explained that this decision is very
important for POL to be on target for offers issued in April/May. RW noted that POL shared officials’ concern
regarding how the offer is communicated to postmasters; he explained that there is draft offer letter text that was
approved by Panel in the pack but that this is likely to be amended. NL noted that officials have some concerns
regarding potential repercussive effects of how the offer is articulated and will be in touch. RJ explained that
Officials are reviewing documentation at present and will be as flexible as possible in order to reach agreement
in good time.
« Regarding the 726 claims without a cohort, SR explained that POL’s prioritisation exercise has largely been
completed and that these will be assessed by date submitted.
* On the timetable, SR praised the work of HSF and the wider team. He explained that POL’s target of 162
offers out for April was subject to the termination issue being resolved. The plan is back loaded for April. He also
explained that 201 offers out for May could be a challenge, noting some process issues at the POL end that will
need to be unblocked. SR was conscious of bandwidth and burnout but noted that POL are planning for lower
output over the summer and needs to keep the plan under review to adjust as needed to mitigate risk of
slippage. NL flagged that on this topic it would be worth POL considering what cases come to Panel and when
especially for the complex cases.
« RJ noted that there was minimum headroom in the plan out to June/July and that it is likely the team will start
to see some of the post offer dispute cases come through. She explained that the BEIS/UKGI team are meeting
with POL’s post offer team to flesh this out. RW noted that he has asked his team to monitor closely the
BEIS0001103
BEIS0001103

acceptance rate for complex cases and will be considering, among other things, the fairness point around
sending cases back to Panel. CC supported this approach. There was also some discussion regarding the MI
and how disputed cases will be categorised — POL are currently considering how this will be presented and will
update officials in due course.

« SM queried how representative the cost numbers are at present. SR confirmed that while previously it has
mostly been SFO cases we will now see the higher value CL claims come through and expect settlement costs
to rise. SR confirmed that by the end of April POL will be able to review the provision.

* SR explained the HMC case review process. He explained that POL are supported by HSF and that HMC is
now meeting regularly to consider cases and escalate according to the agreed criteria as needed. An update is
then provided to UKGI. RJ explained that officials are reviewing cases in parallel, and that SteerCo is now
comfortable with how cases are progressing and the challenge being put in - the sampling has been a key part
of this. CC and SR agreed that looking at individual cases has been beneficial for all the teams. SR also
recommend going to any of the CACD hearings if possible.

* On the request for a VFM assessment, SR noted the commitment in the Ops Agreement and that he is
considering what resource to allocate to it. RJ requested that we agree a date for completion once resource has
been confirmed.

« SR explained that the updates to the POL website regarding HSS/OHC progress is work in progress. GH is
exploring opportunities for improvements with POL Comms.

AOB & Close
* Separately, SR explained that POL is experiencing resource issues on the provision / financial workstreams
and the assurance required. He explained that the POL CFO is also aware of the issue and that there are a few
vacancies to be filled with one individual being inducted at present.
« There was some discussion regarding legal support to postmasters. SR confirmed that so far there have been
very few requests (9) for payments to support postmaster legal advisers. It was also noted that POL have a team
of experienced postmasters who have been offering support to postmasters on this issue.
¢ No further issues. RJ closed the meeting.

Action: POL to confirm timetable for VFM assessment of HSS once resource has been confirmed.

END

Joshua Scott I Manager

UK Government Investments

w.ukgi.org.uk

Follow on inI

From: Scott, Joshua - UKGI

Sent: 06 April 2022 09:37

To: Cooper, Tom - UKGI Mackie, Robert - UKGI <__
Nelson Hilton

Morgan, Simon - UKGI:
jones, Ramona - UKGI < G RO

; Debenham, Jory (BEIS)

ickels, Jo (BEIS)
Shepherd, David <

BEIS0001103
BEIS0001103

Madeleine De Matteis ¢

Cc: Victor Turner
Subject: [OFF:SEN] RE: OHC and HSS Monthly Monitoring - Agenda and Papers

OFFICIAL SENSITIVE —- CONFIDENTIAL & SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

Hi all,

Please see attached and below the agenda and papers for the monitoring meeting tomorrow.
Cheers,

Josh

Joshua Scott I Manager

UK Government Investments

1 Victoria Street, London, SW1H OE)

www.ukgi.org.uk
Follow on

1 Original Appointment-----

From: Scott, Joshua - UKGI

Sent: 06 December 2021 10:18

To: Cooper, Tom - UKGI; Mackie, Robert - UKGI; Matthew Nelson Hilton; Scott, Joshua - UKGI; Creswell, Carl (Services
Directorate); benja i GRO : Ben. Foat} odric.williams!
graham.hemingway: maria.runsews in Recaldin; Catherine Connolly;
jo.foxi urlay, James - UKGI; Morgan, Simon - UKGI; Lakhani, Nikhil - UKGI;
Jones, Ramona - UKGI; brooks-whit: Callow, Sarah (Services Directorate); Wones, Eleri (BEIS);
Debenham, Jory (BEIS); Butler, Liam (BEIS); ‘Daniel Heath’; Thomas, Kaye (Business Investment); Nickels, Jo (BEIS);
Pavandeep Dhami; Shepherd, David

Ce: Victor Turner; james:
Subject: OHC and HSS Monthly Monitoring

When: 07 April 2022 13:15-14:45 (UTC+00:00) Dublin, Edinburgh, Lisbon, London.
Where: Microsoft Teams Meeting

jadeleine De Matteis; James Rolling

Hi all,
Please see the new invite for the OHC and HSS Monthly Monitoring meetings.
Usual agenda as per the below. Will review the agendas and make any changes if needed closer to the time.

13:15 — 14:00 OHC Monitoring
« Introductions and welcomes (BEIS)
« Status Update and Overview (POL)
* General Discussion on Feedback (All)
* AOB and Close

14:00 — 14:45 HSS Monitoring
* Introductions and welcomes (UKGI)
* Status Update and Overview (POL)
* General Discussion on Feedback (All)
* AOB and Close

Cheers,

Josh

Microsoft Teams meeting

Join on your computer or mobile app
ick here to join the meeting

device

Video Conference ID: 121 846 467 9
Alternate VTC instructions

638649470# United Kingdom, London
Phone Conference ID: 638 649 470#

Learn More I Meeting options

BEIS0001103
BEIS0001103
