BEIS0001085
BEIS0001085

From: Scott, Joshua - UKGI[/O=EXCHANGELABS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=0224934F23B1444386FD031B130603A8-SCOTT,
JOSH]

Sent: Fri 16/09/2022 3:36:16 PM (UTC)

To: ‘Simon Recaldi GR ‘Creswell, Carl (Services

hew Nelson
‘Diane Will:

‘Aaron Davey'
ing, Sisi - UK
‘Madeleine De

; ‘Shabegh

Ce:
‘Shepherd, David’
Subject: RE: [OFF:SEN] RE: OHC / HSS Monthly Monitoring - Note of Meeting 09/09
Hi all,

See below a draft record of the OHC / HSS Monthly Monitoring Meeting from last week.
Please let me know if you have any amendments
Have a good weekend,

Josh

OFFICIAL SENSITIVE - Confidential & Subject to Legal Privilege
OHC / HSS Monthly Monitoring Meeting
Friday 9 September 2022

OHC
* Given the live mediation discussions POL OHC colleagues were unable to attend the meeting. It was agreed
that the session would focus on HSS and that officials will consider whether a further session be scheduled for
the OHC updates at a later date.
BEIS0001085
BEIS0001085

HSS Monitoring (Actions in bold)

Status Update and Overview
* SZ welcomed attendees. GH led the POL update by reference to the HSS “To-do” list which was circulated by
POL in advance of the meeting. Key discussion points and updates below:

HSS “To-do” List
¢ Late Applications: BW explained that BEIS have confirmed funding to POL subject to conditions as outlined in
email. With regard to announcements these are put on hold in accordance with the Mourning Period Guidance.
Noted by GH who requested that POL be consulted in advance of any potential announcement.

* Delivery Plan for 95%: GH explained the limited contingency in the current plan, and that POL will share V2.9
of the plan shortly. POL expect c. 100 offer letters issued in September and c. 260 in October. BW noted that
the October targets looks high and queried achievability. DS explained that the target is ambitious, but explained
how HSF propose to achieve the target by reallocating resource and increasing panel capacity. HSF have also
made panel members aware of the targets, and explained that they are willing able to achieve them. DS clarified
that it is ALT team reallocation so there is no additional cost to POL.
* Additional legal fee support: GH explained HRC’s decision in that it approved remaining at the current
£400/£1200 level but allowing on a case-by-case basis to go above. HRC also approved bringing forward the
£5k/£10k for disputed cases. The intent is to communicate this in order to address observations made by Sir
Wyn. GH further explained that this should not impact the financial position but that POL will confirm this with
BEIS. RW explained that the key challenge now is how to communicate this to applicants without undermining
the previous position on offers issued to date.
* Assistant Convictions: GH explained that a paper is in progress for HRC on 29/09. SZ queried the timing on
the seven further cases yet to be reviewed. POL to chase up advice on these from P&P. SZ reiterated the
steer from the SteerCo discussion the previous week, in terms of having overall approach proposed by POL and
agreed through governance.
« PNC / Caution Cases: GH explained that a paper is in progress for HRC on 29/09. SZ noted that some of
these cases will likely make-up the remaining 5%, and that officials want to understand the overall handling
approach to resolve cases. RW noted that this is a challenging issue and are discussing it with HSF next week.
* Dissolved Companies: DS noted that eligibility letters went out this week and remaining letters will be issued
next week. He flagged that some of these may fall in the 95% target but that this depends on how quickly
claimants can turn around applications.
* Insolvency Cases: GH confirmed that offers due to go out in September.
* Outstanding Test Cases: DS explained that he had a positive discussion with panel with regard to harassment
claims. He noted that they had made some sensible decisions and that HSF are working on revised CAPs to
issue to POL today / Monday. On malicious prosecution, DS noted the meeting planned with POL Legal next
week with a view of categorising as far as possible what cases can be progressed to minimise cases falling into
st 5%. On Loss of Reputation, DS noted the agreed CAP and that HRC are set to consider cases
for consistency.

* GH clarified the decisions already made by HRC to reconfirm its policy with regard to interim payments,

losure of documents.

Legal Privilege
° DRI H_ noted that POL is developing its approach for DRP Stage 4 with POL Legal. At present, one case is
set to be a test case for pre-mediation and POL is standing up its pre-mediation process.
« Final 5%: GH explained that POL are working through the delivery plan with HSF. Plan to present the detail at
HRC on 29/09. SZ pointed out that case cohorts listed in the to do list would already add up to 5% if not more,
hence the details on the delivery plan would be important.
* SZ thanked POL for pulling together a clear and concise list. It is a helpful exercise to help colleagues forward
plan activities. SZ invited attendees to add any additional items offline and the document should be used as a
live document. BW agreed the list was helpful and queried the key risks and mitigants in place to reach the 95%
target and close out the remaining 5%. DS explained that from HSF's perspective the key risks are as follows:
i. Delays to applicant RFI responses cf. Sir Wyn’s comments. HSF mitigating this by having focusing on
issuing remaining RFls asap this week and next.
ii. Decision-making for issues. DS noted that the window to turnaround decisions is getting smaller to hit
the 95% target, and hence HSF looking to enable a prompt turnarounds of decisions.
iii. Any constraints / bottle necks e.g. resourcing / panel constraints. DS reiterated the actions HSF have

BEIS0001085
BEIS0001085

taken to address these.
+ JS reiterated the good progress that has been made over the past year and praised POL/HSF colleagues for
their work. RW also noted the good work in creating the infrastructure to enable decisions to progress.

AOB and Close
* SZ queried who decides whether cases can be opined on by the DRT, POL Legal or Panel. GH explained that
POL look to in the first instance decided on cases itself but that as cases have got more complex typically Panel
involvement is often required. DS noted the importance of having the independent view from Panel.
« HF queried the high number of cases in October and whether there will still be sufficient capacity for post-offer
cases. PG explained that given 4 meetings are in place a week capacity should be sufficient, albeit challenges
remain.
* SZ closed the meeting and thanked attendees.

END

Joshua Scott I Manager
UK Government Investments

1V London, SW1H OET

www.uki

org.uk
Follow on

From: Scott, Joshua - UKGI
Sent: 08 September 2022 16:03
To: Simon Recaldin

; Matthew Nelson Hilton <

ly
Gl

rooks-White ¢ GRO

Fallowfield, Harry (BEIS)
Jacki Adams

Evelyn Hocking

Aaron Davey

; Zhang, Sisi - UKGI

Madeleine De Matteis

p; James Rolling

‘by; Elvin, Dominic - UKGI

habegh Singh Srai
+; Tope Animashaun

i Shepherd, David ¢
Subject: [OFF:SEN] RE: OHC / HSS Monthly Monitoring - Papers and Agenda
OFFICIAL SENSITIVE — Confidential & Subject to Legal Privilege

Hi all,
BEIS0001085
BEIS0001085

Please see the papers and suggested agenda for tomorrow's OHC and HSS Monthly Monitoring Meeting.

13:00 — 13:45 OHC Monitoring
* Introductions and welcomes (BEIS)
* Status Update and Overview (POL)
* Discussion on Key Issues (All)

lediation: Any update on mediation discussions if there is one. We are aware that key
attendees of the MMM will be participating so if Simon or others need to be urgently called out we
completely understand..
- ENE Next Steps: Update to the principles and timetable, sharing with other law firms and/or Sir
Wyn etc.
* BEIS is thinking about ministerial comms/engagement so a discussion on timing separately
would be helpful.

- Legal Costs: Discussion with regard to how it plans to manage legal costs.
- Remediation Work: Discussion on procuring suppliers / operationalising the remediation work.
- Other Prosecuting Bodies: Update on discussion / progress with other prosecuting bodies, in
particular development in with the PPSNI
- Update on PNCs and Caution work.
« AOB and Close

13:45 — 14:30 HSS Monitoring
« Introductions and welcomes (UKGI)
« Status Update and Overview (POL)
* HSS “To-do” List
© Discussion on what POL see's as priorities to resolve and the forward plan
* AOB and Close

Cheers,
Josh

Joshua Scott I Manager
UK Government Investments

1 Victoria Street, London, SW1H OET

www.ukgi

g a
Follow on U

-----Original Appointment-----
From: Scott, Joshua - UKGI
Sent: 02 September 2022 12:40
To: Scott, Joshu ;Si
rodric.williams!
Governance; Catherine Cont
White; Wones, Eleri (BEIS) ( Flory; Liam Butler; Fallowfield, Harry (BEIS); Pavandeep Dhami;
Jacki Adams; Lawrence, Ciara (BEIS); Evelyn Hocking; ‘Andrew Mortimer; Aaron Davey; Nigel Machin; Zhang, Sisi -
UKGI; Snow, Emily (BEIS); Madeleine De Matteis; Victor Turner; James Rolling; Richard Paddington; Elvin, Dominic -
UKGI; Tan, Li - UKGI; Di h, Li UKGI; Rod Campbell; Shabegh Singh Srai; Paul Gallagher; Tope Animashaun
Cc: benjamin.tidsw en.Foat ‘GRO __ Ashish Bhagat; Shepherd, David

Subject: OHC / HSS Monthly Monitoring

Recaldin; Creswell, Carl (S«
graham. hemingway

When: 09 September 2022 13:00-14:30 (UTC+00:00) Dublin, Edinburgh, Lisbon, London.

Where: Microsoft Teams Meeting

Hi all,

Reissued the invite for the OHC and HSS Monthly Monitoring meeting.
Usual agenda as per the below.

13:00 — 13:45 OHC Monitoring
* Introductions and welcomes (BEIS)
« Status Update and Overview (POL)
* General Discussion on Feedback (All)
¢ AOB and Close

13:45 — 14:30 HSS Monitoring
¢ Introductions and welcomes (UKGI)
« Status Update and Overview (POL)
* General Discussion on Feedback (All)
* AOB and Close

Cheers,

Josh

Microsoft Teams meeting
Join on your computer or mobile app
Click here to join the meeting
Meeting ID: 364 320 611 102
Passcode: oCQQyJ
Download Teams I Join on the web
Join with a video conferencing device
team: 3
Video Conference ID: 127 170 153 4
Alternate VTC instructions
Or call in (audio only)

1,119792532# United Kingdom, London
Phone Conference ID: 119 792 532#
Find a local number I Reset PIN
Learn More I Meeting options

BEIS0001085
BEIS0001085
