BEIS0000763
BEIS0000763

From: Minister HOLLINRAKE (DBT)[/O=EXCHANGELABS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE
GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=3F 131AB4A1E443368F392D196C626FAE-
5B2AC667-8A]

Sent: Tue 30/04/2024 11:25:28 AM (UTC)

To: Carl CRESWELL (DBT)f,

Ce: Asha BALACHANDRAN2 (DBT)f.__. _4; Ed BAIRD
Subject: Nick Read 30/04/2024 Readout
Hi Carl, Asha

As promised, here's my notes from the NR meeting today. There's one point below marked with

Attendees

Nick Read

Simon Recaldin

Tim McInnes

Carl Cresswell
Lorna Gratton

Kevin Hollinrake MP
Jamie Lucas

Asha Balachandran

STARTS
GENERAL

Nick raised last nights Bill, asked if anything for them to be aware of.

Kevin noted it was the Scottish issue mainly. Met with some of their postmasters yesterday.

Nick introduced Charlotte, Richard's replacement as corporate affairs director.

Nick raised agenda - central costs and compensation. Raised VOTP letter, need to be robust on
those people in the business who were involved in prosecutorial work or investigative work over the
past years. What we will commit to do, we will give you sighting on.

CENTRAL
Tim noted we've had a number of discussions about central costs. Showed the slides on Central
Costs. [have not been sent to us].

Nick jumped in to say that they completed 4 DMB closures this year. 30" of April announcements on
Manchester and Eccleston street. funding secured for 4 more DMB closures, in May. Want to be a
fully franchised organisation. Individuals within rem unit or those with past roles interesting to the
inquiry and are starting that piece of work.

Kevin raised that he's said before happy to make the case for you to HMT fo:
are not here to tell you where to make the reductions in specific strategies.

IRRELEVANT I

BEIS0000763
BEIS0000763

Kevin asked how long?

Tim mentioned it would be over the summer.

Kevin clarified that he was not talking about decisions on outsourcing. I'm talking about 250 people
paid more than 100k a year. Way too top heavy to me. Reducing that headcount.

Tim agreed and said that if we look at the first annex page, would usually be a pyramid. POL is
chunky in the middle. not about going in and taking headcount out, have to do it by targeting an
operating model. NBIT will increase our headcount in IT. Changes being prioritised in commercial
and retail at the moment.

Kevin noted that's the kind of approach I want, and I'd like to see something before the summer that
covers the next 3-year period.

Lorna asked why aren't we doing retail and commercial until September?

Tim clarified that not all of it is. Point of exit of Owen (Deputy CEO) is to look at reporting lines in
those sectors.

Nick chimed in that they will do incremental stuff. Trying to gear up to deliver phase 7 commitments.
I'm not removing people until we've got stability.

Kevin noted that direction of travel needs to be set out first.

COMPENSATION

Simon explained the message from us on OC2, happy to help. He noted that they are
communicating with Charlotte and Carl's team. Need clarity within acceptable time about what that
disclosure looks like. Full disclosure big job and very expensive. The GLO experience a has given us
good experience. The legal advisors have had good experience on what they actually need.
conveniently the GLO requirement is going to drop off as we go to completion.57 people finishing of
GLO disclosure and will move to OC2.

Kevin noted that he was hopeful that a lot of these people take the fixed sum award route anyway
Simon even to a place where no disclosure at all. How can I advise my client that £600k is good
enough given no disclosure.

Simon said that they are hoping to help with capture. Open and willing to let accountant in to have a
look. Also that they are keen to see HSS Appeals that, whenever it is ready.

Kevin still waiting for HMT I think?

Carl agreed with the minister and noted that we are working with POL to see if we can do the £75k
top ups (not new cases) in the meantime.

Kevin agreed to chase CST on it.

Simon queried the funding agreement regarding the £75k fixed sum award for HSS.

CARL (????) current funding would accommodate that. £75k already in the system straightforward
and there's a funding agreement in place.

Simon current proposal on the new £75k is to do it in house and not use services of HSF.

Kevin noted Simon's remarks.

CHAIR

Kevin found you a new chair Nick!
Nick haven't said anything internally. But meeting Nigel today.

ENDS

Jamie Lucas I Deputy Head of Office and Private Secretary to Kevin Hollinrake MP, Minister for Enterprise, Markets and
Small BusinessI

Business and Trade I Old Admiralty Building I London SW1A 2DY I

