BEIS0001104
BEIS0001104

From: Jones, Ramona - UKG!
Sent: Thur 06/05/2021 10:40:05 AM (UTC)
To: Huth, Alexander (Services Directorate Brooks-White

(Jobshare);
Heath, Daniel (Fi
Directorate)t
Robert - UKGi
Wones, Eleri (BE

Subject: FW: HSS MM Notes 1 April 2021

Hi team — see notes from the previous monitoring meeting below, for reference, ahead of this afternoon’s meeting
Ramona
Ramona Jones I Assistant Director

UK Government Investments
1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

From: Jones, Ramona - UKGI
Sent: 06 April 2021 10:17
To: Scott, Joshua - UKGI!

Carpenter, Anni
brooks-whit.
Heath, Daniel (BEIS) .
GRO __....p Wones, Eleri (BEIS)
cooper, Tom - UKG

Morgan, Simon - UKGI i
Cc: Baird, Ed (BEIS
(Trade, Europe and Analysis)
Mackie, Robert - UKG!
Subject: RE: HSS MM Notes 1 April 2021

With thanks to Josh, and small amends to the notes below
Ramona

From: Scott, Joshua - UKGI
Sent: 01 April 2021 16:04

To: Jones, Ramona - UKGI!
Morgan, Simon - UK
Ce: Baird, Ed (BEIS) ¢
(Trade, Europe and Analysi:
Mackie, Robert - UKGI I
Subject: HSS MM Notes 1 April 2021

Heath, Daniel (BEIS) +

- Huth, Alexander
i Wones, Eleri (BEIS): °

Hi everyone,
Some notes from the HSS Monthly Monitoring meeting just now.
© The group covered our reflections from the 31 March Quarterly Review. POL said it was constructive and

useful, and that the questions from SteerCo were at the right level. BEIS and UKGI also felt the meeting went
well. The POL CEO outside of the meeting noted that he felt he was not across the detail enough to usefully
BEIS0001104
BEIS0001104

contribute.
* BW noted that one HSF attendee (Alan Watts) for SteerCo meetings was appropriate.
« Regarding the CEOs comments, RJ noted that SteerCo will expect the POL CEO to attend giventhat he is the
AO for POL with MPM responsibilities, and Ministers will correspond with him directly. This was noted by DS.
* DS noted that he will revert on the Fujitsu third party claims query separately (that was issued by JS
outside of the meeting).
* DS reiterated the need to balance doing right by postmasters with the evidential hurdle discussed at SteerCo.
DS was worried by some comments made by HSF in a separate meeting following the SteerCo.
© GW presented the MI pack slide.
© He noted that POL are expanding the test cases to 58 (from 39) and there was some discussion on
POL’s decision to include claimants over the age of 80 in the Critical/High priority cohorts. BW understood
the rationale but asked about the precedents these cases may set — GW stated these will be dealt with in
the normal way i.e will come to UKGI/BEIS for approval and will not hold up the test cases.
© POL noted that are discussing with the financial risk team regarding updates to their management of
fraud risk.
o GW noted a small number (2 at present) of de minimis claims are at the early stage of the dispute
resolution process. POL plan to come to UKGI shortly regarding their strategy/approach for dealing
with escalation meetings should it go that far.
© 83% of claims are still unquantified. POL are expecting more refined data as the test cases come
through and RFls come in which will improve the financial assessment. RJ requested month-by-month
financial tracking to be included in future slides.
© POL are also looking to rebaseline some of the case assessment forecasts due to the distortion caused
in the scheme set up phase.
o Some discussion on the use of real averages for the claim assessment status. It was noted that this was
difficult due to the lack of data however this should improve as the scheme progresses.
¢ RJ noted that there is ongoing joint working between POL and UKGI looking at how to streamline
investigations, undertaking shortfall analysis and that collectively the teams are looking to create efficiencies
where possible.
* On Panel Guidelines, there was some discussion regarding whether the end of May was too ambitious. CE
noted that the delay to the RFls may cause the timetable to slip. JS asked if the intention to put hypothetical
questions/scenarios to the Panel would be useful in making the best of the gap in work we now have. CE noted
that this was considered by the Panel however it wants to see real life examples and the focus now will be the
test cases. RJ noted that weshould took to-find-a-selution that does-net we are not looking to infringe on the
Panel's independence. Rather we want to understand what the Panel is minded to decide on a number of key
questions, without looking to influence that decision. This suggestion of putting cases in front of the Panel to
understand their direction of travel would be a good use of the time we now have given the delay in test cases,
and would be the start of an iterative process to approve the Panel Principles
* Some discussion on legal costs. CM noted that POL/HSF are looking to streamline activities and POL are
reviewing their internal resource allocations.
* On governance, the POL HSS team reiterated that they were confident that appropriate governance is in
place, reporting into the Board via Declan etc. [NB — this is not aligned with reports we have seen separately e.g
the POL Internal Audit]
e RJ raised monthly milestones, noting the group has high level milestones agreed (e.g the 60/80% targets) but
that at a working level the department needs more detail and to set down markers. GW took an action to
consider this and work with UKGI (AC to lead). BW noted the next BEIS internal reporting deadline is 15 April
and it would be useful to have these by then. SM noted that these need to be realistic.

Any additions/amends please do shout out.

Cheers,

Josh

Joshua Scott I Manager

UK Government Investments

1 Victoria

Tht

BEIS0001104
BEIS0001104

www.ukgi.org.uk
Follow on fin]

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are addressed. If you are
not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This footnote also

confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other
lawful purposes, and that this email has been swept for malware and viruses.
