BEIS0001081
BEIS0001081

From: Scott, Joshua - UKGI[/O=EXCHANGELABS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=0224934F23B1444386FD031B130603A8-SCOTT,
JOSH]

Sent: Thur 19/05/2022 7:45:37 AM (UTC)

To: i i

Creswell, Carl (Set

Matthew Nelson

i Singh,
Gourlay, James - UKGI

Jones,

Debenham, Jory
; Pavandeep
Diane

Mortimer.___

Ce: Victor Turner
Richard Paddi

Subject: RE: [OFF:SEN] OHC Monthly Monitoring - Note of Meeting
Hi all,
Please see below a note of the OHC monitoring meeting last week.
Let me know if any amendments are required.
Cheers,

Josh

OFFICIAL SENSITIVE — CONFIDENTIAL & SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE
OHC Monthly Monitoring Meeting 12 May 2022 17:00 - 17:45

Opening Remarks
* CC welcomed attendees. He explained that he was interested in i) receiving a read-out from the HSF/Hudgells
meeting; ii) a progress update regarding ENE; and iii) POL’s views on what progress can be made in the short-
medium term.

Status Update and General Discussion
* SR provided the status update. He explained that the meeting between HSF and Hudgells was currently taking
place.
* On PFAs, SR explained that POL has been working collaboratively with the CCRC who have issued a further
c.120 letters. Out of this batch, POL has already received 10 responses in which the PFA has requested that
POL/CCRC do not contact them again — this takes the total to 46. POL are working through the remaining
responses. SR also noted that he is taking a proposal through HRC to instruct P&P to identify cases which are
likely to be unsafe convictions and therefore ones in which POL may take a more proactive approach to
progress.
* On Non-POL prosecutions, SR explained that POL continue to supply information and help other prosecuting
bodies to track down individuals. JS queried recent developments in Scotland regarding the POHIT Inquiry and
whether there have been significant developments with the SCCRC — SR explained that there have not but that
BEIS0001081
BEIS0001081

P&P remain in regular dialogue. SR explained that a further roundtable is planned (date TBC). CC thanked SR

for the update and explained that both POL and HMG need to demonstrate that we are doing everything we can
to reach out to PFAs.

CC exp ained that BEIS POCC
had previously been supportive of this idea and would consider a formal proposal. CC also welcomed HSF/POL
submitting further proposals regarding the cost-per-case and revised Hamilton offer.

* On ENE, SM noted that the di:

Legal Privilege

also chall lenged the timetable and requeste: ie group also consider

" éfficiencies and how best to push the proposal and required documentation through POL/HMG governance. It
was noted that the timetable was to be discussed on the programme planning meeting on Friday.

* RM queried the content of the products being produced for ENE. He also queried whether a second opinion
(i.e. ATQC) was needed on the ENE legal submissions before final submission.

. . EW suggested that a next steps should be the POL/HSF/BEIS/UKGI lawyers coming together to discuss and

the ENE documentation. The group agreed. ACTION — EW to set up lawyers meeting to discuss ENE
documentation.

* CC also flagged that HMT will need to be consulted at the appropriate time.

* SR flagged feedback from POCC regarding the potential for two evaluators rather than one and the risks with
regard to cost and delay. CC and SM explained that this was purely for discussion at POCC to bottom out

credibility / authority issues. CC explained that it is now for POL to consider and decide on its preferred
approach.

AOB & Close

* CC explained that BEIS POCC stands ready to consider further proposals as outlined above.
* CC closed the meeting.

Joshua Scott I Manager
BEIS0001081
BEIS0001081

UK Government Investments

ndon, SW1H OET

www.ukgi a
Follow on

From: Scott, Joshua - UKGI
Sent: 12 May 2022 12:29

Directorate) ¢°
jatthew Nelson Hilton

; benjamin.tidswel

; Singh, Gurdeep - UKGI < ; Gourlay,

Morgan, Simon - UKGI

_....?; ‘Daniel Heath' <
; Shepherd, David ¢_
awrence, Ciara (BEIS)
velyn Hocking p

p; Diane Wills
Fallowfield, Harry (BEIS)

Ce: Victor Turner ¢_
Paddington
Subject: [OFF:SEN] OHC Monthly Monitoring - Agenda and Papers

Richard

OFFICIAL SENSITIVE - CONFIDENTIAL & SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE
Hi all,
A reminder of the agenda and papers for todays OHC monitoring session.

17:00 — 17:45 OHC Monitoring
« Introductions and welcomes (UKGI)
« Status Update and Overview (POL)
* General Discussion on Feedback (All)
« AOB and Close

Speak later,

Josh

Joshua Scott I Manager
UK Government Investments

1 Victoria Street, London, SW1H OET

www.ukgi.org.uk

Follow on
