COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Service & Commercial Review

fe)
FUJITSU Meetings

Notes and Action Points
24 April 2012

FUJ00233565

FUJ00233565

Post Office Attendees: I Fujitsu attendees:

Dave Hulbert (DH) James Davidson (JD)

Liz Tuddenham (LT) Tim Healy (TH) (Commercial)
Sue Stewart (SJS) Graham Welsh (GW)

Scott Somerside (SS) Mark Gordon (MG)

Alex Kemp (AK)

Apologies:

Service Review Actions

Date

he Raised

Action

Who

Due Date

Status

Risk Register

Produce a document for discussion at the SMR
30/11 — To be produced in the new year (2012)
19/01 — A joint risk register will now be produced
and discussed quarterly at this forum. An agenda
item will be added to the February meeting to
produce an outline.

21/02 — Separate meeting to be arranged by TA
during w/c 27/02

18/04 — Fujitsu wish to agree terms of reference for
this before production

24/04 — Agreed that a Risk Register will be
developed across the account but will be led via
the Commercial element of these meetings

122 I 200911

MG

Feb
meeting

Closed

Fujitsu Services Financial Growth

Provide communications re first 6 months growth
140 I 301111 I for sharing within POL

24/04 — Financial results will be shared when
published

GW

21/12/20
12

Closed

Cloud Network

Liaise with Liz to provide a presentation to Post
143 I 301111 I Office on what the Cloud is.

21/02 - Jeremy Worrell to run a session.
Requirements to be agreed — SJS and TA to

SJS/
MG

21/12/20
12

C/F

Document is uncontrolled when printed
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

FUJ00233565
FUJ00233565

arrange

18/04 — Sue to provide suitable dates and POL
attendees

24/04 — Agreed to extend the May S&CR meeting
by 90 minutes to incorporate this

156

201211

Postage Labels
- Arrange a “big brain” session between POL,
Fujitsu and Royal Mail to discuss a more
strategic solution
- Prior to this session gather internal feedback
from POL users
22/03 — DH to speak to MW to progress

MW/D

31/01/12

Closed

157

201211

Qos

Produce a proposal for POL (for branch and
counter) detailing what improvements can be made,
what the maximum coverage could be and how it
could be achieved.

21/02 - Alex Todd and Andy Hemingway are in
discussions about a small pilot of aerial
installations at selected branches which might gain
coverage from the use of an external aerial

24/04 — Alex Kemp explained that currently Post
Office have approx 80% coverage. Dave wants
to understand how the remaining 20% without
coverage can be addressed. Alex and Scott to
produce a paper detailing options available

AK/S

11/05/12

CIF

158

201211

Kingston Upgrade

Clarify why implementation has been delayed to
April and what has caused the delay

19/01 — Pilot is to commence in April, rollout
completion date to be confirmed. It was also noted
that a new router model is now available which
Fujitsu are testing and the savings will be passed
on to POL.

21/02 - Ongoing with Rolph Daniels as Fujitsu
Project Manager who is arranging to review the
Project Plan with Alex Todd

18/04 — First pilot went live w/c 9 April, second pilot
live 19/04 and routers are on order for the rest of
the project. Now being managed in bau.

24/04 — A meeting is being held on 16/05 with
the OBC teams to discuss this. Scott to ask
Alex Todd to look at this in advance of that
meeting to get OBC activities scheduled

Ss

05/05/12

CIF

163

190112

POL Structure charts

Provide Fujitsu with the structure charts for IT and
Change and Managed Services and Sourcing
24/04 — Liz explained that there is ongoing
recruitment in Managed Services and Sourcing

LT/D

10/02/12

CIF

Document is uncontrolled when printed
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

FUJ00233565
FUJ00233565

and once a steady state has been achieved the
charts will be provided. Dave to provide the
IT&C chart.

164

190112

Extended Hours

Confirm what activity is taking place currently and
what is planned

21/02 - CT being finalised

22/03 — Requirement for end user services study to
be clarified with Fujitsu colleagues and then work
with the Project to progress this in liaison with Gary
Blackburn and Jeff Burke

18/04 — Extended hours for HSD and Engineering
progressing under CT1063, with ROM response
due wi/c 23 April

24/04 — MG is progressing with Gary Blackburn

GW

30/03/12

Closed

169

210212

Alternative Fault Logging

Discuss with MG and liaise with Kendra Dickinson
to look at ways of increasing the take up of email
logging and progress other activities which are in
the plan

18/04 — to be reviewed w/c 23 April

24/04 — As there has only been a 1% take up on
this alternatives need to be considered. MG to
discuss with Kendra and provide feedback at
the next meeting.

MG

22/05/12

CIF

170

210212

Capacity Forum

Feedback to the forum that future planning
activities should be included in their discussions
18/4 — Link into Gating Forum now established
and attempts are underway to force all plans
through Alex.

All planning is now included in the Capacity
Forum (plugging the gaps on both sides is work
in progress)

Ss

09/03/12

Closed

172

210212

Printer Labels

Discuss with Brian Deveney the option of getting
RMG Procurement involved in the discussions to
move this forward

Ly

09/03/12

Closed

173

210212

Requirements

Discuss at the Joint Demand Planning Forum
concerns re Requirements not being clear and
engage with internal stakeholders in Post Office to
agree how the development of them can be
managed more efficiently

LT/D

20/03/12

CIF

177

210212

Service Desk Outbound calls

Provide a breakdown of the 7707 outbound calls
made by the Service Desk

18/04 — breakdown is 48% to branches, 27% to
Engineering, 9% USAT, 11% CMT, 5% other.

MG

09/03/12

Closed

Document is uncontrolled when printed
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

FUJ00233565
FUJ00233565

178

210212

Service Desk Options for Reducing Costs
Seek agreement to a preferred option from
business stakeholders

DH

20/03/12

Closed

179

210212

Service Desk Security

Send Liz the contract reference which contains the
stipulation that the Service Desk should be in a
secure environment

TH

09/03/12

Closed

180

220312

Capacity Management

Define the threshold, in percentage terms, where
concern should be raised as it is not clear from the
dashboard

AJ/M
G

20/04/12

CIF

181

220312

2011/12 DR Test

Confirm that the dates 5/6 May are available to
conduct the test

24/04 — Dates confirmed

AP

30/03/12

Closed

182

220312

Reference Data Emergency Changes

Discuss with Andy Corbett how Reference Data
changes are managed in line with the OCP process
and ensure that Project Teams understand the
correct processes.

AJ

20/04/12

C/F

183

220312

Service Desk Benchmark
Produce a draft letter of agreement and send to Liz

TH

29/03/12

C/F

184

220312

4% February Major Incident

Provide a detailed explanation of the root cause
and corrective actions to Dave

24/04 — discussed by phone

GW

30/03/12

Closed

187

240412

Dashboard
Colour code the comments with R/A/G

MG

22/05/12

188

240412

POLSAP informal work requests

Speak to Rod Ismay to ensure the correct
processes are used to request new pieces of work
from the POLSAP team in Chesterfield

DH

11/05/12

189

240412

Small Change Activity - POLSAP

Speak to lan Humphries re small change activities
to ensure they go through the correct processes
before Fujitsu are engaged

ss

11/05/12

190

240412

VPN Keys

Those counters who have not had the new VPN key
downloaded will now require an engineer swap out.
Discuss with the Network team to see how they
wish the replacements to be managed.

Ss

11/05/12

191

240412

Postage Labels

Speak to the Supply Chain to restrict the number of
the new labels that branches can order in case Post
office wish to withdraw them

ss

04/05/12

192

240412

Postage Labels
Set up a call with Dave, Paul Brown and the Supply
Team to discuss the ongoing issues with the labels

ss

04/05/12

Document is uncontrolled when printed
FUJ00233565
FUJ00233565

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

5/6 May DR Exercise

193 I 240412 I Chase resolution of the outstanding actions on Post I DH 27/04/12

Office

Concurrency
Get an update on progress from Alex Todd and

194 I 240412 Antonio Jamasb who have been looking at how the DH 11/05/12

activity could be funded.

Future Planning Log

Register To produce a draft k register To progress via

for ongoing update and discussion on Commercial review
a quarterly basis

Future To agree the way forward LT/TH May 12

Benchmarking

activity

E-mail call logging I To review the stats for the first 3 TA May 12
months

Notes:

POL Business Update
e .Mark Weaver has now moved to the Service Design and Transition team and Steve Beddoe
has been appointed to replace him. Steve will attend the next meeting in May.

Fujitsu Services Business Update

« James acknowledged the strengthening engagement between both parties at Board level
and the sharing of information on future initiatives and strategy.

e Noted that there are tensions in the Programme/Architecture areas and James will work
closely with Neil Lecky-Thompson and lain Patterson to improve this.

« James also felt it would be an opportune time to get the teams back together to work on the
relationship (similar to sessions held before) which was agreed by all attendees.

Service Overview

Release and Change

March was the first time this ORF had met and they had recognised that there are problems in
this area which had resulted in a detailed action plan being produced. The S&CR forum agreed
to let the teams work together to deliver improvements which should be visible over the coming
months in the feedback. It was also noted that the forward schedule of change is now being
discussed at the ORF.

Commercial
Noted that the score of 8 should have been for March and not February.

Document is uncontrolled when printed
FUJ00233565
FUJ00233565

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Dashboard
« The comments on the dashboard are to be colour coded with R/A/G (AP187)
e Noted that the change management figures should only include those which are visible to
the Post Office
e Change Requests/CT’s — the overall comment to be provided by the Joint Change
Review Board.

Hot Topics

POLSAP

Concern was raised by Graham about the POLSAP team being approached informally by teams
in Chesterfield to undertake work without going through the correct change procedures. Dave
asked Fujitsu to push back on these requests and agreed to speak to Rod Ismay to ensure the
correct processes are used (AP188). Scott will also speak to lan Humphries re small change
activities to ensure they also go through the correct processes before Fujitsu are engaged.
(AP189)

Outstanding VPN Keys

40 counters have not picked up the new VPN key as they have not been logged on; the result of
this is that the counters will not now work until the base units have been swapped out. Alex
asked whether Post Office wanted Fujitsu to carry out a pro-active exercise to get the base units
swapped but it would be at additional cost to Post Office. Liz challenged whether there should
be additional costs if the activity is within the engineer limits but will check the contract to
assess. Scott will also discuss the need for the swap outs with the Network team to see how
they wish the replacements to be managed (AP190).

Epson Label Developments with RMG

Despite the work which has been ongoing for some months to resolve the issues with the
printers and postage labels Royal Mail have had labels printed with their new supplier which are
ready to send to Swindon and will be distributed to the network. Royal Mail have stated that the
specification of the labels has not changed. It was agreed that activity is needed to mitigate the
possibility that the labels will cause further issues and Scott agreed to speak to the Supply
Chain to restrict the number that branches can order in case Post office wish to withdraw them
(AP191). Scott will also set up a call with Dave, Paul Brown and the Supply Team to discuss
this (AP192).

WHS Self-Fix

The results of the pilot at 16 locations have concluded that none of the success criteria were
met. This was due to branches not following the processes correctly. Engagement will now take
place with the Compliance Team to have a final push and try and make it work, however Fujitsu
will be looking to close the programme if it is not successful.

AOB
Homephone/Broadband
Noted that the new contract for this service will not be picked up under this forum and will have

a separate service review board. It will, however, come under the same Executive Review
board.

Document is uncontrolled when printed
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

5/6 May DR Exercise
As there are a number out outstanding actions on Post Office Dave agreed to chase (AP193)

Concurrency
Alex explained that a ROM had been produced to increase the % concurrency and Alex Todd

and Antonio Jamasb had been looking at how the activity could be funded. Dave agreed to get
an update on progress (AP194)

Commercial Review Actions

FUJ00233565
FUJ00233565

Wrapper Costs

Discuss the approach outlined at the S&CR
meeting (overview in notes below) internally in
Fujitsu and highlight any concerns and propose a

30/03/1

and manage a joint risk register

174 I 210212 way forward JD 2 Closed
22/03 — ask Steve Doyle to provide a draft
document detailing how the process will work
for agreement between Liz and James
CT Charging
Produce a proposal re what should be charged for 09/03/1
175 I 210212 in CT’s to enable the principles to be agreed by THAD 2 Cir
both parties
Wrapper/Governance Costs
185 I 220312 Ensure that Project Managers in Post Office are LT 20/04/1 Gibsed
aware of the timesheet provision and the Pe
requirement for them to manage the process
Outstanding Issues for Discussion with Lesley and
Brian 30/03/1
oe Produce a list of items for discussion in preparation eee 2 Cod
for the forthcoming meeting
Merchant Acquirer
coo 240412 Send a note to Liz explaining what the technical TH 11/05/1
1 problems are and why Fujitsu should be 2
indemnified against PCI risks.
PCI
3° 240412 I Arrange for appropriate Fujitsu attendees to attend I JD srioain
a meeting on 30/04 to discuss CT1041
Risk
Coo 240412 Speak to the Enterprise Risk Team to see if DH 11/05/1
3 someone can help develop a process to produce 2

Merchant Acquirer

Technical problems have been identified with the new Merchant Acquirer and a fix will be

deployed but Fujitsu believe they should be indemnified against any PCI risks. Tim will send a
note to Liz explaining the issue and propose wording (APC001).

Document is uncontrolled when printed
FUJ00233565
FUJ00233565

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Reference Data Charging

Post Office are still awaiting feedback from Fujitsu on the paper submitted by Sue which
detailed improvements which have been made to the reference data processes and which Post
Office believe demonstrates that the monthly additional payment of £20637, detailed in D1,
should now cease. Tim has gathered information to respond and will now discuss with James
with a view to reaching agreement by 11 May 2012.

PODG

Discussion papers on each party’s view of what the requirements were have now been
produced by Peter and Gareth which will be shared. Liz and James to discuss on Tuesday 1
May at 3pm.

PCI

Richard Barber has requested a meeting to discuss CT1041 as the costs quoted on the CT are
a lot higher than Post Office expected following informal conversations between both parties. It
was agreed that a meeting will be held with appropriate Post Office and Fujitsu attendees to
walk through the CT to understand the work that requires completing and the breakdown of
costs involved. In advance of this meeting James will ask Howard xxx to identify the activities on
the CT and understand what is the minimum which needs completing to pass the audit
requirements. Fujitsu will also provide a more detailed cost breakdown. James to organise
Fujitsu attendees for a meeting on 30 April 10-12pm in Old Street if possible (APC002)

Expert Witnesses
Liz would like more clarity about what support is provided under the Contract and will raise it as
appropriate once she has spoken to internal stakeholders.

Risk

A discussion was held to understand what both parties want from a joint risk register and Dave
agreed to speak to the Enterprise Risk Team to see if someone can help develop a process to
manage this (APC003)

Integrated Programme Plan
Fujitsu would like a plan to help them understand future related activities and will ask Neil Lecky-
Thompson if there is one available.

Other

e James raised a concern about the weak governance for Programmes and Architecture and
will be looking to strengthen these areas in the future.

e Itwas also agreed that the dates the Demand Planning meetings are held need to be
changed so that Liz and James can attend.

Date of next meeting: 22 May 2012 - 1100-1530 followed by “Dummies Guide to the
Cloud” 1530-1700 Dearne House

Document is uncontrolled when printed
