FUJ00155275

FUJ00155275
Thomas Penny
Subject: AUDIT - CP update
Location: Greendale Room - RMGA TEAM ONLY - 2nd Fir BRAO1
- I

Start: Mon 20/10/2008 16:00 ae
End: Mon 20/10/2008 17:00
Show Time As: Tentative

\ 22D}
Recurrence: (none) : POH - kan,

. Lee
Meeting Status: Not yet responded
Required Attendees: Thomas Penny; Jenkins Gareth GI; Holmes Alan; Birkinshaw Roy; Sewell Peter (FELO1);
Meek Steven

This is a follow up to today's meeting, minutes of which roughly below.

Discussed costs with respect to proposed Audit changes:

Current costs of manual process:

Person 1 [Manual Event checking] - (Anne/Gareth) 1 hr/day

Person 2 [Extraction/Filtering] - (Steve Meek) 2hr + /day
[Event Refresh] 3hr fortnightly

These are skilled tasks, especially for person 2, which may take some time to train A.N.Other to do, and may take that
replacement resource much longer.

Whether the new development happens sooner, or later, the manual process is likely to continue to be required to be
done for another 6 months.

The cost and schedule of development/on-going manual effort we hope to estimate by COP tomorrow (16th Oct), after
SE/AH/SM meet.

An initial assumption is that delivery of a solution will be from the same base and resource that current deliveries are
made (i.e. from current BRAO1 Audit team).

However the real cost of this development (or rather of not doing it) is in the potential for mistakes (especially by a
‘new’ resource, without the experience of SM) to be made in a manual process which uses data so far abstracted from
the original source: which is the proposed new wording for the CP.

Actions from today's (15th) meeting:

SE/AH/SM meet 16th to discuss estimated costs of dev.

AH to propose new wording of CP

Steve
