FUJ00094296
FUJ00094296

Johns David

Scowen

3; Wilkerson
Chave-Jones MarionI

; Jobson

4
Lywood Pat[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=LYWOODP]
Wed 03/03/2010 9:02:50 AM (UTC)
RE: Proposal from POL to restart Pilot - In Confidence (not for forwarding please)

The peak status that we have on these from Prayers is as follows:

194673 — coming with counter 25.8 LST due to sign off Monday 8/3 at the moment

195107, 194469 — These are in testing with Vol and will get on LST when Sheila says she is ready for them. I don’t have dates yet.
191865 — this applies to 9 or 10 platform types. The last software delivery was made yesterday. We are currently raising release
notes JUST for NAA, NAC, NAL and DEA as Dave Chapman says they are the most urgent. Once these are done we will do the
rest. RM are struggling with getting the amount of release notes raised and processed so only one of these release notes got done
yesterday — hope to get the rest done today. No date yet for out of LST and into live.

194869 — This was delivered yesterday and I need to check with Sheila if this has to go to Vol first. Even if it doesn’t it looks like
another BRDB fix and we already have a release note in process for this so this fix will be backed up behind the other fixes for
BRDB.

There is also the fix for peak 192243 to consider along with peaks 195283, 193783, 193533, 194765, 194034 & 193641 which we
are trackign through prayers as peaks that need fxing for MVP / LVP / HVP.

Hope this helps.

Pat
Service Implementation Manager

_shttp:/uk.fujitsu.com

aS Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Bamber Sheila

Sent: 03 March 2010 08:16

To: Allen Graham (BRAO1); D'Alvarez Alan; Lywood Pat; Richardson Debbie DB; Johns David DL; Butts Geoff

Cc: Cochrane Vince; Dodington Chris; Scowen John; Welsh Graham; Van Achte Gaetan; Chambers Ravi; Wilkerson Guy; Cooke
David; Chave-Jones Marion; Eynon Becky; Young Nicola; Jobson Pete

Subject: RE: Proposal from POL to restart Pilot - In Confidence (not for forwarding please)

The Audit fix won't affect anything we are doing for HVP.

However I am concerned that we are getting release notes through to us that require VOL testing first. I'll try and get this sorted
today and get the priorities for HVP understood within the team

Given the amount of change coming through LST at present and the fact that we may be applying things in a different order than is
going to live (i.e. mega urgent issues crop up which mean they jump the queue over less urgent issues already applied to LST for
testing) IT IS VITALLY IMPORTANT that technical dependancies are documented and understood by all

Rods
Sheila

Sheila Bamber
LST Manager, ITU
FUJ00094296
FUJ00094296
Royal Mail Group Account
1)

FUJI
Lovelace Rd, Bracknell, RG12 8SN

Web: hitp:7uk fujitsu.com

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker Street, London, WiU 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not
guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free

From: Allen Graham (BRAO1)

Sent: 03 March 2010 07:56

To: D'Alvarez Alan; Lywood Pat; Richardson Debbie DB; Johns David DL; Butts Geoff

Cc: Cochrane Vince; Dodington Chris; Scowen John; Welsh Graham; Van Achte Gaetan; Chambers Ravi; Wilkerson Guy; Cooke
David; Chave-Jones Marion; Eynon Becky; Young Nicola; Jobson Pete; Bamber Sheila

Subject: RE: Proposal from POL to restart Pilot - In Confidence (not for forwarding please)

A fix to Audit - was developed yesterday and passed through Integration last night.

Graham Allen
Application Services — Post Office Account

FUJITSU

wt Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

Fujitsu S Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW

s Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office: 22

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee
that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: D'Alvarez Alan

Sent: 03 March 2010 07:49

To: Lywood Pat; Richardson Debbie DB; Johns David DL; Allen Graham (BRAO1); Butts Geoff

Cc: Cochrane Vince; Dodington Chris; Scowen John; Welsh Graham; Van Achte Gaetan; Chambers Ravi; Wilkerson Guy; Cooke
David; Chave-Jones Marion; Eynon Becky; Young Nicola; Jobson Pete; Bamber Sheila

Subject: RE: Proposal from POL to restart Pilot - In Confidence (not for forwarding please)

Pat,
What is the fix for the court case?
Rgds

Alan D' Alvarez

Associate P&PM Academy
FUJITSU
Mob :
Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no. 96056. Registered Office: 23 Baker Street, London W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this e-mail
has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: Lywood Pat

Sent: 03 March 2010 07:04

To: Richardson Debbie DB; D'Alvarez Alan; Johns David DL; Allen Graham (BRAO1); Butts Geoff

Cc: Cochrane Vince; Dodington Chris; Scowen John; Welsh Graham; Van Achte Gaetan; Chambers Ravi; Wilkerson Guy; Cooke
David; Chave-Jones Marion; Eynon Becky; Young Nicola; Jobson Pete; Bamber Sheila
FUJ00094296
FUJ00094296

Subject: RE: Proposal from POL to restart Pilot - In Confidence (not for forwarding please)
All,

I will cross check these with prayers. However I suspect, for today at least, that the fix to get data for the court case may be
more important than these fixes. I don’t think they will clash in test so it shouldn’t be an issue but I will check with Sheila.

Regards

Pat
Service Implementation Manager

FUNTSU

st Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Richardson Debbie DB

Sent: 02 March 2010 18:53

To: D'Alvarez Alan; Johns David DL; Allen Graham (BRAO1); Butts Geoff

Cc: Cochrane Vince; Dodington Chris; Lywood Pat; Scowen John; Welsh Graham; Van Achte Gaetan; Chambers Ravi; Wilkerson
Guy; Cooke David; Chave-Jones Marion; Eynon Becky; Young Nicola; Jobson Pete; Bamber Sheila

Subject: RE: Proposal from POL to restart Pilot - In Confidence (not for forwarding please)

Fixes are

194673 — CAPO fix (informally tested on VOL in C1 formal fix applied via Release Note 1/3

194869 — BRDB improvements — fix delivered Release Note required — With Integration

191865 — Crypto dil - fix delivered and processed by integration Release Note required — With Release Mgmt

195107 - BDB memory and support of OSR connections — under investigation - RHEL and R1.08 performance fixes does
not appear to have improved the issue - MOST SIGNIFICANT TO RESOLVE

194469 - single thread issue on Auth Agents (symptoms went away once we had taken CTR24.5 on VOL) This fix will alleviate
future issues so recommend deployed but not critical

Also need RHEL upgrade — have email out with Dave C on this.

Debbie Richardson

Mob‘
Tel: 4

From: D'Alvarez Alan

Sent: 02 March 2010 18:24

To: Johns David DL; Allen Graham (BRAO1); Butts Geoff

Cc: Cochrane Vince; Dodington Chris; Richardson Debbie DB; Lywood Pat; Scowen John; Welsh Graham; Van Achte Gaetan;
Chambers Ravi; Wilkerson Guy; Cooke David; Chave-Jones Marion; Eynon Becky; Young Nicola; Jobson Pete

Subject: RE: Proposal from POL to restart Pilot - In Confidence (not for forwarding please)

Can we ensure that the fixes for the issues are given the highest priority.
Thanks

Alan D' Alvarez
Associate P&PM Academy

england no. 96056. Registered Office: 22 Baker t, London W1U 3BW
This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this e-mail
has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: Johns David DL
FUJ00094296
FUJ00094296

Sent: 02 March 2010 18:05

To: Allen Graham (BRAO1); Butts Geoff

Cc: D'Alvarez Alan; Cochrane Vince; Dodington Chris; Richardson Debbie DB; Lywood Pat; Scowen John; Welsh Graham; Van Achte
Gaetan; Chambers Ravi; Wilkerson Guy; Cooke David; Chave-Jones Marion; Eynon Becky; Young Nicola; Jobson Pete

Subject: RE: Proposal from POL to restart Pilot - In Confidence (not for forwarding please)

Geoff,

There are a number of performance issues that have been uncovered by VOL testing recently that need to be applied to Live before
we should consider putting into live before we start ramping up the number of branches. As far as I am aware, these are not in the
set of changes that have been classified as 1.08. These fixes are data centre changes rather than counter changes so that will help
in getting them out, however for at least one of the issues we are still in the process of diagnosing the issues and no fix is yet
available.

I understand from Debbie that she has already highlighted the need to put these fixes into live as a caveat on the schedule below.
Debbie has I believe provided the list of associated PEAKS already for these issues.

I agree that this looks an aggressive schedule and I would prefer to see a longer stabilisation period before start of LVP and Rollout
— though clearly that would impact the start rollout date of 29/03.

We also need to ensure that VOL testing has proceeded far enough with fixes fully implemented through to Live prior to start of full
rollout (and potentially LVP) and there does not seem to be much time to achieve this within this schedule, though others who are
closer to the current testing plans may be better able to comment on that aspect.

Dave

From: Allen Graham (BRAO1)

Sent: 02 March 2010 07:45

To: Butts Geoff; D'Alvarez Alan; Cochrane Vince; Dodington Chris; Richardson Debbie DB; Lywood Pat; Scowen John; Johns David
DL; Welsh Graham; Van Achte Gaetan; Chambers Ravi; Wilkerson Guy; Cooke David; Chave-Jones Marion; Eynon Becky; Young
Nicola; Jobson Pete

Cc: Wood Mike

Subject: RE: Proposal from POL to restart Pilot - In Confidence (not for forwarding please)

Geoff \ Chris,
Looks like a good summary.

Agree it is aggressive particularly around the 1.08 pilot where 2 days will not be long enough to assess if things have improved nor
long enough to ensure we have no regression. Our CIT, SVI and LST testing though should have picked up any major regression.

Key to me is does the change to the VPX server cache setting reduce the connectivity issues; if it does then we are about back to
the position before we paused the pilot with the same issues and risks.

As I have said before you have to make your own luck and this is still an aggressive plan where we are unlikely to get any luck and
any major issue will cause us to stop again. I would prefer to take more time to ensure stability however I can not identify anything
that I would say should stop us moving forward and hence I would support the approach outlined below providing the assumptions
hold true.

Producing a new Counter Migration package is 2 to 3 days effort for my Inf Rel Development team, if this is just adding 1.08 and a
few deployed hot fixes. We should also consider adding the next Counter hot fix.

Regards,

Graham Allen
Application Services — Post Office Account

FUJITSU

FUJ00094296
FUJ00094296

ss Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Reg Office: 22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee
that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: Butts Geoff

Sent: 01 March 2010 23:03

To: D'Alvarez Alan; Allen Graham (BRAO1); Cochrane Vince; Dodington Chris; Richardson Debbie DB; Lywood Pat; Scowen John;
Johns David DL; Welsh Graham; Van Achte Gaetan; Chambers Ravi; Wilkerson Guy; Cooke David; Chave-Jones Marion; Eynon
Becky; Young Nicola; Jobson Pete

Cc: Wood Mike

Subject: Proposal from POL to restart Pilot - In Confidence (not for forwarding please)

Importance: High

All,

Following a discussion earlier today I've received the following proposal from Post Office to pilot the 0108 counter fixes and to
restart the pilot:-

Monday 08/03/10 Sign-off Counter Fixes for 01.08

Monday 08/03/10 (overnight) Update Model Offices in live with 01.08 counter fixes

Tuesday 09/03/10 Model Office summary test of 01.08 counter fixes

Tuesday 09/03/10 (overnight) Update first 50 pilot branches (from Medium Vol Pilot) with 01.08 counter fixes

Wednesday 10/03/10 (overnight) Start migrations at next 40 branches (01.08 counter fixes will update 24 hours later)

Thursday 11/03/10 (overnight) Update remainder of live branches from Medium Vol Pilot (94) with 01.08 counter fixes.
Start migrations on a further 100 branches (01.08 counter fixes will update 24 hours later)

Tuesday 16/03/10 Start of High Volume Pilot (275 branches, with 01.08 counter fixes to update 24 hours later)

Thursday 18/03/10 Next 275 branches start migration (with 01.08 counter fixes to follow)

Friday 19/03/10 Next 110 branches start migration (01.08 counter fixes to follow)

High Volume Pilot to then run for 1 week to ensure no further issues are encountered.

Monday 29/03/10 Start rollout

We need to confirm back to Post Office by close of play tomorrow our support for this approach. Key assumptions made here are:-

Implementation of next phases of 01.08 into the Datacentre on 07/03/10.

Sign-off in LST of 01.08 counter fixes achieved by afternoon of 08/03/10.

Pilot of 01.08 counter fixes for 2 days is sufficient to prove fixes.

High Volume Pilot continues with the 01.08 counter fixes updating 24 hours after the branches migrate.

Sysman 2 issues that may impact on delivery of the 01.08 counter fixes and Help Data are resolved by 08/03/10.

. Incidence of screen pauses/connection error messages in live is significantly reduced by the OCP change to the VPX
server cache setting 01/03/10.

ee

Key Questions
1. Are there any alternative approaches to the above proposal that we wish to make? My personal view is that this is
aggressive but has some logic to it and demonstrates that POL is still very keen to move forward with the migration.

2. When is the earliest that we could deliver and test a revised counter migration package containing all the counter fixes in
01.08 and do we want to offer this date to POL? In principle, John Wheeler has indicated that the POL Programme Team can
manage the stakeholders to continue with the 01.08 counter fixes following 24 hours behind the branch migrations for the

rollout, but we should look at this because it makes the overall deployment process more complex.

3. How can we resolve the Help Data issue — which shows signs of being a symptom of a much wider issue with Sysman?
lan Bowen and Vince are suggesting a Task Force led by John Bradley. As a team we need to agree how this is supported.
4. What are the risks around this timeline?

5. If the above dates are accepted, what does this do to the end of rollout and decommissioning? We need to revisit the 4G
proposal and determine if there is Account commitment to taking on additional trainers to prevent the rollout end date moving
into June. Chris/Guy — we need to discuss this with Alan on Wednesday morning.

I'm on leave tomorrow, but will be picking up emails later in the day. Chris — can you pull together a response and send to me by
FUJ00094296
FUJ00094296

close of play tomorrow.
Thanks.
Regards,

Geoff

Geoff Butts,
Programme Manager, HNG-X Release 1,
Royal Mail Account

Practitioner, P&PM Academy

FUJITSU

Mob: {
E-mail: g

Web: http://uk-fujitsu.com

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does
not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.
