Message

FUJ00126076
FUJ00126076

From:
Sent:
To:

ce:

Subject:

Gents

Hall Andrew [/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=HALLA2]

19/05/2009 14:39:43

Rowley Peter [/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=ROWLEYP]; Gilbert Roger
[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=GILBERTR2]; Young Lester
[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=YOUNGRLI; Bailey Clive
[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=CLIVE. BAILEY]; Jeram Peter
[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=JERAMP]; Goodge Paul
[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=GOODGEP]; Lamb lan (BRAO1)
[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=LAMBI]; Goldsmith Steve
[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=GOLDSMITHS]; Murray Graham
[/0=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=MURRAYG2]; Cochrane Vince
[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=COCHRANEV]; Wright Roger
[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=WRIGHTR]; D'Alvarez Alan
[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=DALVAREZA]; Cooper David (PBU)
[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=COOPERD2]; Butts Geoff
[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=BUTTSG]; Wood Mike
[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=WOODM2]

Warham Wendy [/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=WARHAMW]; Andrews Julia
[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=RONANM]; Simpson Paula
[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=SIMPSONP2]; Kirkham Suzie
[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=KIRKHAMS]; Startin Andy
[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=STARTINA]; Worrell Jeremy
[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=WORRELLI]; Stephenson Kirsty
[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=CHRISTISONK]

Meeting with Mike Young Operations Director POL

The meeting was scheduled to introduce Peter R and Mike Wood to Mike Young.

Mike wanted discuss three items

1) Our Organisational Structure (Top Level)
2) Time line for the HNGX project
3) Communications.

Mike added that he would like to understand what POL needed to do better following the Business assurance
review. Action Can BA please provide a summary of actions for Mike Young by the end of this week.

Peter advised Mike that our organisational structure remained a work in progress and would discuss that with him
at the next meeting , which we agreed would be very early June to present the revised plan. Attendees from
Fujitsu, Peter, Mike, Graham Lester and myself, from POL, Mike, Dave Smith and Mark Burly. Action Andy to
schedule meeting.

It was agreed that this would not and should not stop the team socialising the plan with Dave and Mark
beforehand.

Mike Y described the project as being in ‘a tailspin’ and that the jury was now out on Fujitsu. Couldn't understand
wht we were finding the infrastructure so difficult.

Mike Y made it clear that the he did not like the April date.

Mike would like a concise view of the level of complexity of this project which he can then use with his board.
Action Graham can you look a putting a one pager together by the end of this week.

Mike agreed to monthly review meetings with Peter. Action Julia and Paula to diarize asap

Mike is prepared to give us some space once we get thru this planning phase.
FUJ00126076
FUJ00126076

¢ Mike wants a high level plan or roadmap to show the end date of this project , Version 2 and 3 , Globe and CRM.
Action Andy to work with Graham and team to achieve before June meeting.

¢ Mike concluded by again offering to arrange for Roger and Peter to meet Alan Cook once the current planning
round was completed.

The meeting was a shorter , punchier version of the meeting last week with Roger. Mike got his key points across around
the delay and his dissatisfaction with us but he was practical and clearly wanting/needing it to succeed.

Peter, Mike have I missed anything?

Andy

Andy Hall

Account Director - Royal Mail Group
Fujitsu Services Ltd
Lovelace Road
Bracknell
e RG12 8SN

