HSRF SUMMARY REPORT ON SERVICE REVIEW FORUMS

MONTH: NOVEMBER 2000

REFERENCE DATA
In general the forum continues to be useful. Structure changes introduced
recently have improved the efficiency and effectiveness of the forum.

Discussed ICL Pathway’s requirement for CRs for product changes that may
affect benchmark transaction times. Reached a fair measure of agreement for
a viable way forward, but the issue currently rests with the commercial teams
from the two organisations. HSRF may be asked to endorse way forward if
issue is handed back from Commercial.

Problems/Issues discussed:

¢ Identified a potential risk, in that operations around the interface for
reference data are highly dependent on individual undocumented
knowledge held by one individual in each organisation (Paul Phillips,
PON; Kevin McKeown, ICLP). This risk is being managed by the RDORF.
Actions:

e Paul Phillips and Kevin McKeown to produce brief description of
the range and scope of the activities/capabilities/ expertise etc.
required to fulfil their roles.

¢ Joint workshop to be held when both sides have completed their
current activities.

INCIDENT REVIEW AND EXCEPTION (BIMS)
Invoice for June to August 2000 has been finalised and agreed and Richard
Brunskill will request the raising of an invoice for £27900.00.

There are still a number of outstanding Case Law issues which are being
chased from PON and ICL Pathway for resolution, however, these incidents
have not being repeated in recent months therefore the volumes are not
increasing.

PROBLEM MANAGEMENT
No feedback

BUSINESS CONTINUITY

Generally good progress - 7 actions closed since last meeting, 7 remain open.

Key actions are around the following areas:

¢ Cross domain walk-through for Business Continuity required - to be
arranged in the new year.

¢ Concerned that we still haven’t been able to review the ICLP Business
Continuity Plans which have changed as a result of CSR+.

FUJ00119974
FUJ00119974
Problems/Issues Discussed:

¢ Non polling (Problem no. 10000073) - concerns around progress of solution
for marooned transactions. Agreed to monitor via the Problem Met.
Domains

HELPDESK
No feedback

TRANSACTION DATA

This forum has not been held for some months due to a change in staff but it
has also been recognised that the OLA needs amending to take into account
different ways of working. Meetings are being held between PON and ICL
Pathway to develop the OLA and future review meetings.

AP

This group is still working as a Steering Group and is in the process of
transferring to the format of Service Review Forums. As a result some
elements of the current meetings are being transferred to other areas to ensure
that the forum only focuses on the service review element.

LOGISTICS FEEDER SERVICE

Draft Terms of Reference have been written for this new forum and a working
group is currently developing the OLA and deciding on the appropriate
attendees for the Service Review Forum. The first meeting of the Review
Group is planned for 6 December 2000.

FUJ00119974
FUJ00119974
