FUJ00155278
FUJ00155278

Thomas Penny

Subject: Updated: Audit CP - Words ‘

Location: Cornflower 1st Fir I
Start: Fri 24/10/2008 11:30 ti I
End: Fri 24/10/2008 12:30 .

Show Time As: Tentative POH - 61 61
Recurrence: (none)

Meeting Status: Not yet.responded

Required Attendees: Thomas Penny; Holmes Alan; Birkinshaw Roy; Sewell Peter (FELO1); Meek Steven

(Tomorrow: room booked 11.30-12.30, but we could try and get the whole thing thrashed out in 30 mins)

At Today's meeting, Pete agreed that (with Alan and Roy's input) we urgently need to thrash out the words to sell the
CP to interested parties.

This we hope to do in the morning.
We very much hope Roy can be there tomorrow to advise on politics.

Time is of the essence, given resources and other work required to be done.
Absent was Steve Meek, busy as he is with other pressing Audit work.
Gareth has withdrawn, available if necessary.

We will get Pete by mobile speakerphone.

Previous Meetin:

Follow up:-
Thurs 15:00-16:00 (booked - hopefully will take less)
Room 116 - BRAO1 Fir 1

After Monday's Audit get together the following was discussed/decided:

** The cost estimates arrived at between SM/AH/SE on 16/Oct for Audit Strengthening:
6d Manage

5d CP Prep/HLD

32d Dev & Doc

12 Test and release

= 55d

*“* It was agreed that Alan should move forward with the wording as presented in his CP.

** It was agreed that to present to Project Management, we need a short and persuasive argument, delivered as a
compact set of bullet points.
They should read:

4 The Value and contractual obligations of the ARQ service
2 The problem as it was first discovered;
-the on-going with the ‘manual’ process,
- -and now additional checking of Events (NB... Applies to Hzn data now, but will probably also apply to HNGx
data equally)
*3 -The current costs of the ‘manual’ process; (1d/wk (to be automated) + 2d/wk event checking));
-the cost of a proposed automation of much of the process (55md)
-and the ongoing cost of event:checking (2d/wk event checking).
. (NB..The process will live until the end of HNGx live 2015)
*4 The cost/risk of failing to provide data for the ARQ service on time or because of unsupportable data.
FUJ00155278
FUJ00155278

It was proposed that (and not simply because he was absent!) points 1, 2 and 4 need to be worded and presented by
Pege Sewell.

(Pete had said we was going to escalate the issue to Wendy - you may want to consult with Roy quickly beforehand.)
Roy would be the client of these words in the first instance.

All
Today's meeting agenda:

1 .We need to validate the cost estimates arrived at between SM/AH/SE on 16/Oct for Audit Strengthening:
6d Manage

32d Dev & Doc

12 Test and release

= 50d

2..We need to review Alan's revised CP wording
3. We need to come up with a version of the words to ‘sell to an additional audience, which (in Roy's parlance) is the
‘pink’ project management one.

We need to dial both Pete and Penny into the meeting at 4.00.

This is.a follow up to today's meeting, minutes of which roughly below.

Discussed costs with respect to proposed Audit changes:
Current costs of manual process:
Person 1 [Manual Event checking] - (Anne/Gareth) 1 hr/day
Person 2 [Extraction/Filtering] - (Steve Meek) 2hr + /day
, [Event Refresh] 3hr fortnightly

These are skilled tasks, especially for person 2, which may take some time to train A.N.Other to do, and may take that
replacement resource much longer. :
Whether the new development happens sooner, or later, the manual process is likely to continue to be required to be
done for another 6 months.

The cost and schedule of development/on-going manual effort we hope to estimate by COP tomorrow (16th Oct), after
SE/AH/SM meet. © ‘

An initial assumption is that delivery of a solution will be from the same base and resource that current deliveries are
made (i.e. from current BRAO1 Audit team).

However the real cost of this development (or rather of not doing it) is in the potential for mistakes (especially by a
‘new’ resource, without the experience of SM) to be made in a manual process which uses data so far abstracted from
the original source: which is the proposed new wording for the CP.

Actions from today's (15th) meeting:

SE/AH/SM meet 16th to discuss estimated costs of dev.

AH to propose new wording of CP.

Steve
