Acceptance Workshop (6) Horizon Programme

FUJ00119870
FUJ00119870

Atten

dees:

Acceptance Workshop (6)
Renaissance Hotel - 10:00 — 18:00 on 13" September 1999

ACTION Points

Expert: Peter Copping
POCL: Keith Baines, John Meagher, Ruth Holleran, Min Burdett (minutes), Mark Burley (376, 378), Calum Craig (376, 378), Bob Booth (391, 372, 298), Andrew Simpkins

(plan)
Pathway: Tony Oppenheim, John Dicks, John Pope (376, 378), Dave Hollingsworth (298), Dave Cook (412), Steve Muchow (298), Mike Coombes (plan), Lawrence Price
(plan)
218 Training
Work ‘Action Workshop
shop Date Date
10. I 3 POCL (Steve Grayston) and Pathway (Liam Foley) to progress and agree the rectification plan. 6" Sept
Workshop 4 Update: Plan being discussed at working group on 8 Sept. Outcome to be brought to this group. 9 Sept
Workshop 5 Update: Rectification plan now subject to some detailed changes. Confirm agreement to this group. 17" Sept
ll. I 5 Pathway to provide final AI analysis form and POCL to confirm agreement. 17® Sept

Page I of 16.

[DATE \@ "dd/MM/yy" I
FUJ00119870

FUJ00119870
Acceptance Workshop (6) Horizon Programme
298 System Stability
Work Action Workshop
shop Date Date
2. 2 POCL (John Meagher/Ruth Holleran) and Pathway (Terry Austin) to agree achievement levels for each deficiency. This will 6" Sept 6" Sept
establish the target levels for reducing this Acceptance Incident from High to Medium.
Workshop 4 Update: POCL presented their view of the target levels for closure. Pathway to review and feed back to this 9% Sept
meeting: the achievability of the closure target; the associated timescales; and their view of the target for moving from High to
Medium.
Workshop 5 Update: POCL to review Pathway’s proposal for reducing the severity (section 5.4 of Resolution Plan for AI 298). 13" Sept
Pathway reconsidering their “complexity of technology” argument for justifying the acceptability of higher incident rates. 13" Sept
Workshop 6 Update: “Complexity of Technology” argument removed from text. Delete next time.
3. 2 Pathway will develop a policy document describing how they will minimise the risk of destablising the system in subsequent 9 Sept 13" Sept
releases. Policy document to be issued and discussed with POCL (Jeremy Folkes to arrange POCL participants) in advance of
discussions at this group.
Workshop 6 Update: Workshop 5 action carried forward. 14" Sept 17" Sept
4. 3 POCL (John Meagher) to produce mapping of Pathway to POCL classifications of the incidents. Agree this mapping with 6" Sept 6" Sept
Pathway. As part of 298/1 above, report back any issues.
Workshop 4 Update: Mapping has been done by POCL. POCL to send to Pathway for review.
Workshop 5 Update: The new report (see action 298/6 below) to be reviewed to ensure that the mapping overlaps and 13" Sept
omissions are properly accounted for and reported.
Workshop 6 Update: Actions complete. Delete next time.
Page 2 of 16. @ "dd/MMiyy" I

FUJ00119870

FUJ00119870
Acceptance Workshop (6) Horizon Programme
Work Action Workshop
shop Date Date
5. 3 Additional stability issues have been noted by POCL (e.g. hour glass appearing at unexpected times). POCL (John Meagher) to As they
ensure that Pathway is kept up to date with new types of incidents as seen by POCL. occur
6. 3 To inform the 10" Sept meeting (deciding whether to roll out to the next 158/178 outlets) we need the best view we can get of the 6" Sept
data and trends. The working group should provide an initial draft of a management summary report on 6" Sept and a further 9” Sept
report for 9%
Workshop 5 Update: Pathway to produce an updated report including categories around disputed calls. This report to be 13" Sept
reviewed by POCL.
Pathway (Steve Muchow) to consider how to report the data and trends to minimise the effect of new offices’ learning curve calls. 13" Sept
Workshop 6 Update: Pathway to produce the next version of the metrics (“Acceptance Incident 298 - Resolution Plan v0.5” 14" Sept I 17" Sept
includes the system incident metrics). The figures to be available to inform the workshop (see issue 298/7 below). This version to
include:
¢ as an addition to section 5.2, a summary table showing, for each incident category and in total, the metrics to date and the
forecast for weeks 25 and 26
© longer term (6 months) targets which can be monitored at the Delivery Meeting (see Management Forum note at end). This
should if possible show the logic for the reductions (e.g. association with fixes to be applied - see 376 output as an example)
In addition Pathway (Steve Muchow) to produce a report to show how existing outlets will be monitored separately from newly 17" Sept
rolled out outlets (Borough High Street being the first of these).
714 Pathway issued a draft Rectification Plan. POCL (John Meagher) to review and feedback to Pathway (Terry Austin cc: Dave 9" Sept 9" Sept
Hollingsworth). Update this meeting.
Workshop 6 Update: Pathway (John Dicks) and POCL (Bob Booth) to arrange a workshop to resolve any issues around the 15 Sept I 17" Sept
rectification plan.
8 14 Pathway to clarify whether in the Long Term Stability Policy document there is just going to be testing, or whether other elements 9" Sept
of the development life-cycle will be part of the approach.
Page 3 of 16. [ DATE \@ "dd/MM/yy" ]
FUJ00119870

FUJ00119870
Acceptance Workshop (6) Horizon Programme
AI 314 - Provision of Technical Documentation
Work ‘Action Workshop
shop Date Date
3. [3 Pathway will produce a revised version of CS/SPE/007 including: 13" Sept
(i) the document will contain Pathway specific APIs as will be required for the development process:
(ii) an undertaking to provide a list of ‘excluded’ Riposte APIs which are in conflict with the Pathway implementation;
(iii) addition of an appendix containing technical details of Systems Management and Key Management that
would be subject to an NDA;
(iv) Pathway to add a new section on standards.
Pathway to report progress to this group having discussed the revised draft with POCL.
Workshop 4 Update: Note the change in date for review by this group.
Workshop 5 Update: Document agreed. Pathway to raise final AT analysis form and POCL to confirm agreement. 17" Sept
AI 369 - Scanner Reliability
Work ‘Action Workshop
shop Date Date
3. 3 Pathway (Steve Muchow) and POCL (Karen Rogers) to develop an action plan for the “roving lab” to pick up reject books as they I 3" Sept 13" Sept
occur. Target is for the lab to be in operation on 7" and/or 9" Sept. Pathway will attempt to provide bar-code evaluation
equipment as part of the lab.
Workshop 5 Update: Roving Lab in NE 9" Sept. Feed back outcome to this meeting.
Workshop 6 Update: Joint report on outcome to be written. 14" Sept I 17" Sept

Page 4 of 16. [ DATE \@ “dd/MM yy" I
FUJ00119870

FUJ00119870
Acceptance Workshop (6) Horizon Programme
Work Action Workshop
shop Date Date
4. 3 POCL to escalate with DSS the need to be involved in the activities (a) providing impounded books for further testing and (b) 3" Sept 6" Sept
observe the “roving lab” tests. Update this group with progress.
Workshop 4 Update: DSS (Steph Fowler) has noted that their concern with the proposal to provide impounded books is (a) 9" Sept 9" Sept
getting agreement from DSS Security and (b) concerns around the delay in returning books. POCL (Bruce McNiven via John
Meagher) to escalate this with DSS (Ken Davenport and Vince Gaskell) to try to get their agreement.
Workshop 5 Update: Vince Gaskell no longer involved in this area. John Meagher to speak to Ken Davenport to determine 13" Sept
appropriate operational contacts in DSS to be involved with on-going issues around the service
Workshop 6 Update: Now subsumed under action 369/5 below. Delete next time.
5. I3 Pathway reported that about 90% of books not scanned were from 4 or 5 offices. Pathway will undertake root cause analysis of 6" Sept
these offices.
Workshop 4 Update: Analysis of single office with 50% of failures indicates incorrect procedure being used in outlet. POCL. 9" Sept
(Dave McLaughlin via John Meagher) to telephone to determine reason for high failure rates in the other cluster offices.
Workshop 5 Update: Ring around cluster offices has identified a number of causes of user problems with system. There is 13" Sept
some justifiable confusion with the procedures (having to do different processes in similar, but different circumstances). A
reference data change will help with one misleading icon. John Meagher to action change.
Workshop 6 Update: Reference data change initiated and will now go through the normal OBC process. POCL have issued new
procedures to Horizon offices to ensure appropriate action is taken. Delete next time
Page 5 of 16. [ DATE \@ "“dd/MMiyy" I

FUJ00119870

FUJ00119870
Acceptance Workshop (6) Horizon Programme
Work Action Workshop
shop Date Date
6. 5 POCL (John Meagher) and Pathway (John Dicks) to develop a joint rectification plan for presentation to DSS. This rectification 15" Sept 17" Sept
plan to include the targeting of cluster offices (Pathway providing the MIS/POCL to determine and manage the process for
dealing with problem offices),
Workshop 6 Update: POCL (John Meagher) has arranged to meet DSS (Paul Wootton) on 16" Sept to present outcome of work I 15" Sept
to date and proposals going forward. John Meagher to agree with Pathway (John Dicks) whether Pathway representation
required.
Pathway to provide evidence and representation of statistics (content to be agreed with John Meagher). 15" Sept
7, 6 POCL (John Meagher) to determine POCL’s view of this as an incident. This view to be communicated to Pathway (Tony 15" Sept 17" Sept.
Oppenheim) by close of play 15" Sept.
AI 372 - Systems Management
Work Action Workshop
shop Date Date
3. 3 Pathway to document the resolution proposal as an AI Analysis form,
Workshop 4 Update: Note change in date for next review at this meeting. 13” Sept
4 4 POCL to review whether re-down-loading of Riposte file is an acceptable part of the test. 9M Sept 9" Sept
Workshop 5 Update: It is not acceptable to POCL that re-down loading Riposte as part of the Systems Management test. 13” Sept
Pathway to produce provisional release note for the test drop and discuss this with POCL (Bob Booth in Jeremy Folke’s absence.)
Workshop 6 Update: As changes to Riposte have to be part of the test drop, Pathway plan that the drop circa 17 Sept should 15"Sept I 17" Sept
constitute the test. Pathway to confirm details of the drop for POCL to review. POCL (Bob Booth) to feed back any issues to
Pathway for joint resolution by end 15" Sept. Bob Booth to ensure Keith Baines knows status 16" Sept a.m.

Page 6 of 16,

@ "dd/MMyy" I
FUJ00119870

FUJ00119870
Acceptance Workshop (6) Horizon Programme
376 Data Integrity
Work Action Workshop
shop Date Date
2, 42 Pathway needs to make clear the OBC procedures and practice that will be in place, both up to CSR+ and after CSR+, for: 2" Sept 9" or 13
¢ changing the status of core products to non-core Sept

© decreasing the availability of non-core products.

This to be documented by Pathway (referring to existing documents where appropriate) and reviewed by Working Group (see 1).
There will be a test of the agreed (interim) procedures by releasing currently suppressed changes through a managed programme.
This test to be planned by 2"! Sept and progressed sufficiently to assure the procedures by 9" or 13"" Workshop. Flag up on 2"!
Sept Workshop if problems with progress.

Workshop 3 Update: See new action 376/10 below.

Workshop 5 Update: Because of the nature of the process to release the embargoed reference data changes, it will not be
possible to manage the release, test the fix and report back in the remaining time for Acceptance. Determine the implications of 13" Sept
this at next meeting - each party to determine appropriate representation for the discussion.

Workshop 6 Update: It has been agreed that it is now safe to release the embargoed changes into the live environment. This
will now take place. POCL and Pathway to determine how the procedures will be “tested” (monitor their operation in the live 14" Sept 17" Sept
environment).

NB. The release of the embargoed changes and the testing of the procedures will occur after the associated fix which will be
implemented on the 14" Sept.

Page 7 of 16,

@ "dd/MMyy" I
Acceptance Workshop (6) Horizon Programme

FUJ00119870
FUJ00119870

Work
shop

Action
Date

Workshop
Date

Pathway are proposing a 3-level data integrity check to be implemented in December. This needs to be documented as a high
level design including failure state analysis. POCL (Calum Craig, Graeme Seedall, Martin Box and Jeremy Folkes) to be
involved in interactive walkthroughs during the development of the design. Report progress and issues to this group

Workshop 4 Update: POCL consider high level design generally good. Further joint work needs to be undertaken on:

¢ failure scenarios. POCL will undertaken an internal review of the design (including TIP and TP) to determine failure
scenarios. These will be documented and fed back to John Pope by close of play 9". John Pope (calling on others if required)
will identify how these scenarios will be dealt with. Update at this meeting

© operating procedures. The development of the operating procedures, including reporting failures to TIP, will be included in
the rectification plan. (see 8 below)

Workshop 5 Update: POCL review identified failure scenarios and some issues with the high level design which needed
clarification. (It was reconfirmed that the high level design was acceptable, but the resolution of detailed aspects of the design
may impact the high level design.). POCL and Pathway will meet to discuss the POCL paper “EPOSS/TIP Reconciliation
Controls” which summarises the failure scenarios and design issues.

Workshop 6 Update: Progress at 10 Sept was good. Pathway to issue paper (13 Sept) for POCL review to confirm agreement.

3" Sept

9” Sept

10" Sept

14" Sept

6" Sept.

13" Sept

13" Sept

17" Sept

6.

N

POCL’s position is that roll-out should not commence until data integrity can be assured. Ruth Holleran to consider with the
Auditors, and report back to this group, whether the current Pathway checks plus, possibly, continuing POCL checks, would be
adequate until Pathway’s full data integrity checks are in place.

Workshop 4 Update: POCL and Pathway need to develop a contingent approach possibly including indemnities. Keith Baines
and Tony Oppenheim to meet with lawyers to initiate.

Workshop 5 Update: POCL’s position remains that this Incident should remain High until the data integrity fix is in place.
POCL have further internal meetings to confirm this position. POCL will contact Pathway should further clarification be
required. POCL to report back to this meeting,

Workshop 6 Update: This will now be part of the contractual discussions being held between POCL (Keith Baines) and
Pathway (Tony Oppenheim).

8! Sept

14-16"
Sept

6" Sept

9% Sept

13" Sept

Page 8 of 16.

@ "dd/MMyy" I
FUJ00119870

FUJ00119870
Acceptance Workshop (6) Horizon Programme
Work Action Workshop
shop Date Date
8 [2 Pathway to prepare rectification plan and present to this group. 6" Sept
Workshop 4 Update: Pathway presented CR/ACD/376 “Acceptance Proposal Acceptance Incident 376” version 0.3. POCLto I 9"Sept I 9" Sept
feed back comments.
Workshop 5 Update: Pathway to update rectification plan addressing POCL comments provided. Plan to include: 13" Sept
the process and output for tracking and reporting incidents (along the lines of the current reports to this group)
© how POCL will be involved with on-going detailed design issues which impact the high level design
e development of the process/procedures for the December data integrity fix
Workshop 6 Update: POCL to review latest version of rectification plan (handed out at meeting). Discuss issues with Pathway I 14" Sept I 17" Sept
and jointly resolve.
9. 3 It was agreed that the working group should continue to meet to monitor and review TIP incidents. Next meeting to have on 3" Sept 6" Sept
agenda and feed back to this group:
¢ any further progress on existing incidents (including PinICL 27748 - see 376/3 above)
© — new incidents raised since last group meeting
commission the production of a management summary of incidents highlighting:
© summary of incidents by type of occurrence
o when related fix(es) introduced
© rate of occurrence before and after fix
© new incident types
Workshop 4 Update: Drafi monitoring report was presented. Working group will update this report including: o
e week 23 to be added 9" Sept
* add notes explaining position of those under investigation
© fixes forecast
‘ i
Workshop 5 Update: Next report to be presented before the Workshop on 17" Sept 16° Sept I 17° Sept
Workshop 6 Update: The next report (including week 23 and 24) is now required to inform the contractual discussions. 16" Sent
Pathway and POCL (Calum Craig) to produce the report and get to Keith Baines as carly as possible on 16" Sept. mee
Page 9 of 16. @ "dd/MMiyy" I

FUJ00119870

FUJ00119870
Acceptance Workshop (6) Horizon Programme
Work Action Workshop
shop Date Date
10. I 3 As part of the working group activity, POCL has reviewed the procedures (some of them interim) which will be in place to 9" Sept
manage OBC change up to CSR+. POCL to determine the acceptability of proceeding with this interim solution. Any issues to
be discussed with Pathway before the 9"" Sept review by this group.
Workshop 5 Update: Interim OBC solution acceptable. Delete next time
378 Incomplete Cash Account Records
Work Action Workshop
shop Date Date
2 [2 POCL would like to understand how Pathway have undertaken their design level review to analyse and improve the deficiencies 6 Sept
around the cash account to prevent inappropriate interruptions e.g. multiple user key/touch screen entries. Pathway to
arrange, Jeremy Folkes to arrange suitable POCL participants. Report back any issues to this group.
Workshop 3 Update: The action is focused on the cash account process, but will include possible side-effects of the
rectification elsewhere.
Note new wording agreed at Workshop 4. Pathway (Alan Ward) and POCL (Jeremy Folkes arranging appropriate participants) I 15" Sept I 17" Sept
to meet by 15" Sept - earlier if possible. Follow on meeting with designer on 20" Sept if necessary
3. [5 New incidents have occurred. Pathway to report back root cause to next meeting, 13" Sept
Workshop 6 Update: It was confirmed that this was the same as the original error. Further clarity required from Pathway John I 13" Sept
Pope) whether these new incidents occurred before the associated fix, or whether the fix has been unsuccessful.

Page 10 of 16.

@ "dd/MMyy" I
FUJ00119870

FUJ00119870
Acceptance Workshop (6) Horizon Programme
AI 391 - Physical Security at Bootle and Wigan
Work ‘Action Workshop
shop Date Date
2. 43 Pathway will obtain and review A&L procedures for vehicle access at Bootle. POCL to be involved in review. Pathway will Circa 8" 13" Sept
propose and gain approval to any changes noted in the review. Review to be done in time for action 391/3 by end of 10" Sept Sept update
should that be required
Workshop 4 Update: NB new workshop date.
3. [3 POCL to participate in site visit to check deployment of security procedures at Bootle if deemed necessary. 10" Sept I 13" Sept
Workshop 6 Update: This final issue on the Rectification Plan has now been resolved and so the rectification plan is now
agreed.
Pathway to raise the final AI Analysis form. 17" Sept
408 HSH Performance
Work Action Workshop
shop Date Date
6. I 2 Pathway to produce a rectification plan for presenting to this group. This plan to include date for when target SLAs will be met. 9! Sept
Workshop 5 Update: Pathway to update rectification plan in light of actions 7 and 8 below for review by POCL. 17" Sept
7. [2 Pathway to produce outline proposal on Service Levels for the cash accounting expert domain. 9" Sept
Workshop 5 Update: POCL (including Keith Baines, Ruth Holleran) to review Pathway’s (including Tony Oppenheim) 14" Sept I 17" Sept
proposal and discuss.
8. 5 Performance Service Level statistics for August have been re-produced by Pathway to exclude the cash account calls. POCL to 14" Sept 17" Sept
assure that the statistics are being appropriately reported. Pathway and POCL (including Ruth Holleran, Dave McLaughlin,
Jerome Brice, Adele Henderson) to meet to review the new service level report.

Page 11 of 16.

[DATE \@ "dd/MM/yy" I
FUJ00119870

FUJ00119870
Acceptance Workshop (6) Horizon Programme
412 Service Performance Ad Hoc Reporting
Work Action Workshop
shop Date Date
1. 5 POCL and Pathway to meet to review particular examples of concern to POCL (or review all examples on the Pathway log). 13" Sept
Report back any issues (o this group.
Workshop 6 Update: POCL to review response in Pathway’s “Acceptance Resolution Plan - Acceptance Incident 412” v0.2 15 Sept 17" Sept
2. 5 Pathway (Steve Muchow) to consider whether it would be appropriate to provide a targeted teach-in to appropriate POCL experts 13" Sept
to enable them to focus their ad hoc requests around the Pathway data structures.
Workshop 6 Update: POCL to review response in Pathway’s “Acceptance Resolution Plan - Acceptance Incident 412” v0.2 15"Sept I 17" Sept
3. [5 POCL and Pathway presented their respective draft papers explaining their view of the issue. The process for ad hoc reporting is 13" Sept
documented in CS/PRO/031. The Pathway report highlighted an issue around the availability of data at appropriate points in the
reporting cycle. Pathway to provide further information on this for POCL to review.
Workshop 6 Update: POCL to review response in Pathway’s “Acceptance Resolution Plan - Acceptance Incident 412” v0.2 15"Sept I 17" Sept
4. 15 POCL to progress (Keith Baines to speak to Dave McLaughlin) the issue around the transaction times for fallback transactions.
Aide Memoire - Delete next time.

Page 12 of 16.

@ "dd/MMyy" I
FUJ00119870

FUJ00119870
Acceptance Workshop (6) Horizon Programme
Agreed Category B And Other Incidents
Work ‘Action Workshop
shop Date Date
1. 1 Of the nine Agreed Category B Faults, there are six with agreed resolution plans. It was agreed that ICL Pathway would submit 31" Aug. 6" Sept
an Acceptance Incident Analysis Form to cover the agreed resolution plan for each of the six Acceptance Incidents for POCL’s to 5" Sept
agreement. (The six incidents are 342, 361, 371, 211, 390 and 395.)
Workshop 3 Update: 342, 371, 390 and 395 Analysis forms received. POCL note the request for closure on 371 and 395.
Workshop 4 and 5 Update:
© 211 - further 7 incidents investigated. A recent fix, “F1” caused this (and the OBCS read) problem. New fix will be 17" Sept
introduced 17" Sept. See action IRP 5 for wider implication of this issue - assuring the regression testing is appropriate for
the level of fixes being applied. Pathway to submit an updated AI analysis form including these new incidents and including
an update to the rectification plan
© 342 - No further incidents. Monitoring continuing until 1 Oct
° 361 - No further incidents. Monitoring continuing until 1* Oct
© 371 - Reports produced. ATM review to see if appropriate to close.
e 390 - No further incidents. Monitoring continuing as per rectification plan
e 395 - No further incidents. Monitoring continuing. ATM review to see if appropriate to close.
2. 3 Pathway (John Dicks) and POCL (Jeff Austin) to arrange a review of all remaining Low Severity incidents to resolve any 21* Sept
Low/None differences of opinion and to determine the plan for closure. Complete review by 21” Sept.
Integrated Rectification Plan (IRP)
Work Action Workshop
shop Date Date
lL I 4 POCL (Ruth Holleran) to confirm dates for monitoring the fix and feed back to Pathway. 7" Sept
Action complete: Delete next time

Page 13 of 16. [ DATE \@ “dd/MM yy" I
FUJ00119870

FUJ00119870
Acceptance Workshop (6) Horizon Programme
Work Action Workshop
shop Date Date
2°44 POCL (Jeremy Folkes) to review 391 plan and feed back to Pathway. 7 Sept
Action complete: Delete next time
3. 4 POCL (Andrew Simpkins) and Pathway (Mike Coombes and Lawrence Price) to compare plans and resolve issues. Update
Pathway plan.
* Feedback issues to this group 9 Sept
Issue plan for review by this group 9! Sept 13" Sept
Workshop 6 Update: Actions above complete. Further activity required:
¢ Tony Oppenheim/Keith Baines to advise “planners” Mike Coombes/Andrew Simpkins of criteria changes (see Other Actions 14" Sept
3 below)
© POCL (Min Burdett to co-ordinate) to review individual Acceptance Incident plans and feed back to Andrew Simpkins 1s" Sept h
© prepare a level I plan to present separately. Pathway (Lawrence Price) and POCL (Andrew Simpkins) to meet and develop 16" Sept i Sept
¢ modify the level 2 plan as discussed at the meeting. Ensure that the presentation highlight key connectivities between 17 Sept
Acceptance Incidents and the connectivity and impact on the overall programme plan.
4 5 POCL (John Meagher) to speak to Pathway (Mike Coombes) about Pathway’s wider regression testing plans which are currently 13" or 17"
being developed to assure the stability of the system going forward. Sept
Page 14 of 16. [ DATE \@ "“dd/MMiyy" I
Acceptance Workshop (6) Horizon Programme

FUJ00119870
FUJ00119870

Other Actions

Work
shop

Action
Date

Workshop
Date

4

POCL (Ruth Holleran and Keith Baines) to determine the management forum to oversee the implementation of the rectification
plan.

Workshop 6 Update: Agreed that this would become part of the fortnightly Delivery Forum Meeting. POCL (Andrew
Simpkins) to update and reissue agenda and attendance to take account of this.

It was agreed that the Delivery Meeting on the 24" November and 22"! December (especially for the latest position on 376) would
be key review meetings for the decision to start roll out in January. There will also be a step check on the 8" December.

24" Sept

13" Sept

v

Pathway (John Dicks) and POCL (Min Burdett) to progress all outstanding actions on “Workshop” incidents prior to 17" Sept
Workshop and ensure they are all appropriately documented and the position agreed.

15" Sept

17® Sept

To support the contractual meetings (especially the second one on 16" Sept, the meeting discussed the criteria that must be met
for roll-out to commence in January. The headline criteria were discussed, and actions agreed to progress the detail and the
threshold levels (all output to be received by Keith Baines in time for contractual meeting on 16" Sept):

298 Criteria

¢ — incident frequency (per counter day) by incident category. Weightings (indicating relative business impact) to be considered
depending on category (e.g. those requiring reboots are more disruptive than those with workarounds). John Meagher and
John Dicks to progress at 15/9 workshop. John Dicks to provide at this meeting Pathway’s view or thresholds.

376 Criteria

© period of “clean” running where no incidents occurred. POCL (Ruth Holleran to propose the length of time required and
whether incidents identified and reported by Pathway’s interim measures are admissible.

e adherence of Pathway to the development and testing plan. This requires Pathway (Mike Coombes) to provide a breakdown
of this activity on the rectification plan and the production of the entry and exit criteria for each sub-activity (to Ruth
Holleran).

15" Sept

14" Sept

15" Sept

Page 15 of 16. [ DATE \@ “dd/MM yy" I
FUJ00119870

FUJ00119870
Acceptance Workshop (6) Horizon Programme
Work Action Workshop
shop Date Date
408 Ci a
achievement of the HSH resourcing plan. Pathway (John Dicks/Steve Muchow) to provide the appropriate stage points for 15" Sept
monitoring.
¢ performance against service levels. Level 3 cash account expert domain SLs need to be agreed (existing meeting 14" Sept) 14" Sept
4. 16 Also for the contractual meeting, POCL needs to determine how many/which week’s offices need to be rescheduled from the 15" Sept

current plan. Andrew Simpkins to provide a briefing paper (close of play 13" Sept). Keith Baines and Ruth Holleran to
determine POCL view.

The meeting summarised the intended topics for the next Workshop.

17" September Workshop (9:30 Gavrelle House)

408
412
369
298
376
378

eee eee eece

Min Burdett

Sandwich Lunch (ordered for 12:30)

check to ensure all incidents have been appropriately documented (including rectification plan and AI analysis form)
Integrated Rectification Plan

Preparation for pre-Acceptance Board

Page 16 of 16.

@ "dd/MMyy" I
