FUJ00078669
FUJ00078669

MEETING MINUTES

Project: Horizon Programme
Meeting: Weekly Progress/Status Review #4
Held at: Chetwynd House Chesterfield Date: March 11 1999
Attendees: Chris Young (CY) Chairman
Pete Jeram (PJer) Pathway
Nikki Oâ€™Sullivan (NOS) Pathway
Pat Lywood (PL) Pathway

Hadley Baldwin (HB) CAPS
Lesley Finnigan (LF) CAPS

Les Hodson (LH) CAPS
Peter Beuster (PB) CAPS
Peter Jones (PJo) POCL Co-ordination Test
Martin Box (MB) TIP Co-ordination Test
Sue Rhodes (SR) HAPS Co-ordination
Colin Standring (CS) Horizon Product Management
Keith Hall (KH) Horizon Test
Ted Baldwin (TB) POCL Reference Data (Part)
Apologies: Richard Gaze
Distribution: All present plus:
Dave Millar
Andrew Simpkins
Rod Stocker
Carol Jepmond
AGENDA

Minutes of previous meeting
Actions arising

Progress Reports

Review of outstanding incidents
Issues & Risks

AOB

Agreed Status (RAG)

Date of next meeting

SANDAAPWNE
FUJ00078669

FUJ00078669

MEETING MINUTES

3.1

Minutes of previous meeting
The minutes of the previous meeting were agreed.
Actions Arising

Action 2/8: LF to send daily status reports to PJer.
Action completed and closed.

Action 3/1 PL to provide JB with a list of outstanding PinICL numbers for incidents
raised.
Action completed and closed

Action 3/2 JB to discuss with John Plowman a method of speeding up the review of
Business Impact of incidents.
CY and CS have agreed a process for MOT incidents, a process is already in
place for E2E. Closed

Action 3/3 PJ to discuss use of MOT environment for volume testing with Simon
Palladino. Action completed and closed

Action 3 /4 Pathway requested that TIP (MB) provide a Testing Impact when they raise
anew High Priority incident. Action completed and closed.

Action 3/5 CO to set up a meeting between Horizon Product Management, TIP and
Pathway to resolve the outstanding issues resulting from a reconciliation
incident. Action completed and closed

Action 3.6 CY to arrange for open and closed MOT incidents to be displayed
separately. Action completed and closed

Progress Reports

CY reported that Model Office continued to run to schedule without slippage. All counter
activities had now completed as planned on Wednesday 10, with successful production of final
cash accounts. Data processing was still continuing at the back end systems with final data
analysis and reconciliation expected by Monday/Tuesday next week. Further opportunities to
carry out extra testing of training mode on the counter terminals were being utilised by Borough
testers.

KH reported that End to End testing was also on schedule with the counters running test day 32 of
33. All file transfers were up to date, and final processing and data reconciliation were expected to
be completed by Wednesday 17. PJer asked TIP to confirm when Pathway can commence system
clear-down for target testing.

Action 4.1 MB to confirm by Sunday 14 March when Pathway can expect to commence
system clear-down.

PJer confirmed that system backups will be taken prior to clear-down.
2
FUJ00078669

FUJ00078669

MEETING MINUTES

4.1

7.1

8.1

Review of outstanding incidents
PL provided an update of the incident status for MOT.

Action 4.2 PL to send details of PinICLs 22528 and 22530 and incidents 9/29 and 13/01 to
LF for review

Action 4.3 CY to pass details of incident TIP 706 to Bruce Talmage for retest.

NOS provided an update of the incident status for E2E

Issues & Risks

No new issues were raised.
AOB

None

Agreed status (RAG)

Agreed that status is Green, but a cluster of High impact incidents need to be investigated by
Pathway

Date of next meeting

The next meeting will be held at 11.30 on March 18, at Feltham.
