NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

FOR USE OF NATIONAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL OFFICERS ONLY

NATIONAL FEDERATION OF SUB-POSTMASTERS

REPORT OF A MEETING

OF THE
NATIONAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL

held on

16th, 17th, 18th JUNE 1997

at

THE ABBEY HOTEL, MALVERN

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

« a

A/t

NFSP00000452

NFSP00000452
AGENDA
JUNE 1997
REPORTS AND RESOLUTIONS of the
Executive Council Meeting, held on 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th March 1997;
Special Executive Council Meeting held on 11th May 1997
Post Conference Meeting held on 14th May 1997
MATTERS ARISING FROM THE REPORTS
REPORT OF THE NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
The following reports refer:- NC/POCL 29.4.1997
NC * 2/3.6.1997

POST OFFICE GROUP

Post Office Board
1, Post Office Board oo........ssesssssssssssvssssssecssscsssecenssssssasecsesssses POBD NC

Government Affairs
2. Government Review stesteeseeseserse PO PZ

- The Minimum Wage

- Commercial Freedom/Conversions

- The Post Office Inquiry - Trade and Industry Committee

- Extract from Tory Election Manifesto

Post Office Counters
3. (a) Post Office Counters Board ......cccsccsssssceccssssecssssescoose PO PC 02

(b) Organisation of Distribution within POCL ..................PO PC 03 *

1 Revised 14.6,1997

* indicates alteration or addition to previously circulated Agenda

NFSP00000452

NFSP00000452
Off-Shore Islands
4. (a) Guernsey .. NC I
(b) Isle of Man
(C) Jersey ...esccssecsesseesscsessensssecsseeessenceueeesenstesseencssssseeans

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LIMITED

Commercial

5. Marketing Briefings ..

Human Resources

6. Training for Subpostmasters .............ccsseseieesteeeeseeresreees PC HR 04 NC

Mailwork

7. — Payment System o........ccceceeecseeesesseeeeseeeseseeseesesssesseees PC MP 04

Network
8. (a) Network Forums .........scccscsssssesseessesessecsesnseesseeeeeneene PC NW O01 NC
(b) Local Area Network Plans ........ccccsesssesseeseseeeeseeeees PC NW 02 NC

- Franchise Offices (formerly PC FO)
- Conformance Trial - Raising the Standard

(c) Counter Automation - BA/POCL 0... PC NW 06 01
(d) Counter Automation - APT/Bar-coding .........seseesee PC NW 0602 NC

(e) Counter Automation - ALPS
- Goodwill payment for Sub-Postmasters

PC NW 0607 NC

(f) Counter Automation - Mondex Trial .........s0sceeeeeee PC NW 0608 NC
(g) Funding of SPSOS ...,..s-ssssssssssessstssnsssssssnsseeassens PC NW 09 03—NC
2 Revised 14.6,1997

* indicates alteration or addition to previously circulated Agenda
NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

Security
(8) POCLNFSP Meetings .......cscsssssssssssssssssussssssessessassssee PCNWI1101 *

(b) Devolution of Budget to Regions ...........
- Regional Security Forums
- Custody of Keys
- Personal Guide to Security

PC NW 1101 NC

(c) Equipment . streiesesseeseeseeerseetsensen PO NW 11 02
- Trial of Smoke & Dye Packs

- New SPSO anti-bandit screen (SPSO 2000)
- Access Doors

-  Anti-intruder Alarm Grants

- Proposed Trial of Remote Alarm Signalling

(d) Trauma Care Programme .

(©) CaSHCO oeeeesrossecssssesessneecsssssssunsnstereeseeetassasecsssesee I

C3)

Product Range

Gift Vouchers ........scccsssssssesssuessssssssesssasesessesesesisssssssseuee PC PR 06 NC I
Quality
Customer First ........cccssssssssssessssssssssssssssssessssssseseescussevesssene PC QY 01 NC

- Change in Focus of the Quality Function I
- Putting the Customer First - Transactional Training i
- Putting the Customer First - Changes to the Questionnaire

Subpostmasters Contract

(a) Termination Procedures PC SC NC

seeeseseseesaseneguessnssecsseeasensenneeneasecss PC SC 04 NC

vets PC SCOS NC

siete eseeaccusceeneseesesesanseceessenesenees PC SC 07 NC
seeteaeseseenee PC SC 12
3 Revised 14.6.1997

* indicates alteration or addition to previously circulated Agenda

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

(f) Paypoint (CashStop) ......scsscssscseesseessersnereerseenseeesneess PC SC 2101

(8) NEPOC iesesceccsecseesssessseeessneenesnecneenessnenearesseescnseseseenss PC SC 28 NC

Subpostmasters Pay

(a) Pay Review wiccccsscsssssssecssesssesetecsssmmssenenmsrseeeess PE §P

(B) Pay Claim 1997 v.ecccssssssssnsseeensesnssinssitsssessseesseee PC SP/1997

(0) Unit Credits «0.

-PC SP 01

- Postage Stamp Unit Credit
- Barcoded Bills and Ad Valorem
- Television Licence Savings Stamps

(d) Intermittent Allowances .....

PC SP 0203 NC

(e) Telephone Allowances ..........cscssseseeeeeniteeteneennneess PC SP 0206 NC

POCL CLIENTS

Benefits Agency ....

.. CLBA NC

British Gas .. ..CLBG NC
British Telecom .......:..ccccscssesssesseeseesseeeeneescensenneeneeseeneenes CLBT NC
Electricity Boards ..........ccscccsscscesessesenseeeeteseenssneesseeeseecens CLEB NC
Foreign Exchange .........csccscscecsssecseceesereeeeseeseereaceseeneneees CLFX NC
Girobank

(a) NESP/Girobank MeetingS ............cestesseeeseecesseees CL GB 01 NC
(b) Products and Counter Services ........-.ceccsseeeseessseees CLGB08 ~“NC
TMSUPANCE 0... essseessesseeseesaseneeseesnennessnestesvecaaeeareaneseeene CLIN NC

4 Revised 14.6.1997

* indicates alteration or addition to previously circulated Agenda

21.

22,

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29,

Local Authorities

Home Help/Care Stamps .........ccccscscsssssssscsssssssscscssseessssere

Lotteries

(@) National Lottery so. ccscccccssssssssseessesssessessssssssseee

- Prize Payments
- Wednesday Draw
- Errors

Motoring Organisations

National Savings

NFSP Meetings .......sccccscsessessssssssssccssssecsenssssecsessensevesssnseses

Personal Banking

Personal Financial Services ...........

- Trial in North Wales & North West Region

Payment Collection Services
Vodaphone .....cscccecseecsseesseeare

Royal Mail

Priority Services

Utilities es eescsssssssessesecesecsesecesssunseseccsssnsssssasensanessesnnens

Water Authorities

(a) Welsh Water - Barcoded Transcash Bills ...........ssecec.0.

(b) Northumbrian Water - Barcoded Transcash Bills .....

5

CLLA 01

CLLOO1

..CL MO 02

CLNS 01

.CL PB

CL PC 04

CL WA 1004 NC

CL WA 1904 NC

Revised 14.6.1997
* indicates alteration or addition to previously circulated Agenda

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

NC

NC

NC

NC

NC

NC

NC

A/4

AIS

Western Union/Moneygram

30. Moneygram ..........:ccsseeseeees

Organisations

SPARE HEADING

SUB-COMMITTEE REPORTS

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

FM 00 NC

A) PUBLICITY AND DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE

1, REPORT OF PREVIOUS P & D MEETING
14 & 15 APRIL 1997 - Buckingham

2. FEDERATION ANNUAL CONFERENCE
Annual Conference 12 -14 May 1997 - Llandudno FM AC 1997

3. FEDERATION INTERNAL

a) Re-mandating Exercise

b) Federation Publications
“The SubPostmaster”

PC HR 03

FM PB 01

c) Branch Secretaries’ Seminar FM MS 04
Keele - 13th & 14th September, 1997

4, FEDERATION/PROMOTIONAL AND PUBLICITY
a) Sub Post Office Exhibition FM PP 01

NEC Birmingham - 11th & 12th October, 1997

b) Charity Fund
Children in Hospital
Macmillan

FM PP 03
FM PP 03

5. CONFERENCE RESOLUTIONS 1996

Subscription Review

96/86

Support for Branch Secretaries 96/90
Purpose and Format of Annual Conference 96/94/95

6 Revised 14.6.1997
* indicates alteration or addition to previously circulated Agenda

NFSP00000452

NFSP00000452
Future Dates and Venues of EC Meetings
Oct 1997 Monday 20 - Wednesday 22 October 1997 Malvern
Jan 1998 Sunday 4 - Tuesday 6 January 1998 London
March 1998 — Sunday 15- Wednesday 18 March 1998 Malvern
June 1998 Monday 15 - Wednesday 17 June 1998 Malvern
October 1998 Monday 19 - Wednesday 21 October 1998 Malvern
B) FEDERATION TRUSTEES REPORT
C) BOARD OF BENEVOLENCE REPORT
SPECIAL MATTERS
A) MEMBERSHIP :
@ New Membership Computer sseseeseesaeesteessesssesseseesersteateateee FL MR 01
B) FINANCE i
@) _ Treasurer’s Report ........... FI AC 02 l
Gi) Outstanding Branch Accounts FI AC
(ii) Re-mandating exercise .......... FI MR 01
(iv) Membership - Developing a Strategy FM MS 03 *
(v) South Wales & South West Region . FM OG 05 *

(vi Union Facilities

C) JOURNAL
@ Editor’s Report ........sscssssssssssssseseessssssnssesssessssssessssesesessane FM PB 01
D) TRADING

(i) Eagle Star Scheme

CONFERENCE RESOLUTIONS PRIOR 1997

96/51 Payment Days
96/7 Advertising
96/83 .. Standardisation of Certificates of Insurance

and Cover Notes

7 Revised 146.1997
* indicates alteration or addition to previously circulated Agenda

A/8

A/S

A/10

NFSP00000452

NFSP00000452

CONFERENCE RESOLUTIONS 1997
MOTIONS TO THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL
DEPARTMENTAL CORRESPONDENCE
(A) FOR DISCUSSION
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LIMITED

Network (
1. (a) Sub Post Office Signage - Aliflex ......0. ccc PC NW 05 03

(b) Review of Helplines ........cccsscesseeeesnee PC NW 10

Quality
2. (a) Customer First PC QY OL

- Trial for compensating customers who wait longer than 5 minutes
- Customer Satisfaction Index - Surveys

Subpostmasters Contract
3. (a) Christmas and New Year Arrangements .............000000 PC SC 05 01 (

Subpostmasters Pay
4. (@) APT Schemes .........csccesssssesseeseeseessseseeneessneasereenseesnens PC SP 02 08
POCL CLIENTS

Benefits Agency —
5. (a) Review of Form P80MA. .......sessecseesessssesneseeneeserseeeses CL BA 04

8 Revised 14.6,1997

* indicates alteration or addition to previously circulated Agenda
NFSP00000452

NFSP00000452

Girobank
(a) Girobank PDR’s (Postmasters Daily Records) ............ CL GB 08

Personal Banking Services

(a) Personal Banking Trial - Co-operative Bank

Extension Review CL PB

Payment Collection Services

(a) Vodaphone Pre-pay . CL PC 04

FOR INFORMATION

Commercial

(a) Market Research .............cccccccccsscsssscssessestsesssssessssess PC CM 02

Network

(a) Post Office Stores: Scheduled

Ordering - Transaction Stock .. «PC NW 04

(B) Post Office Stock .....ecscscccssssssssssssssssssesssesseeseseenssese PC NW 0401

(©) Sensitive Waste - Portable Shredder Trial .....-.-cccccccos. PC NW 04 02

(@) Counter Automation - BA/POCL oecccccccccccsccssssssssssese PC NW 06 01
- Research

- Customer Education

(©) The Smart Money

Product Range

(a) Postal Orders o...ssceesecscscsssssssssssessestsestsessasessssssnnes PC PRO1

(b) Postshop Retail Products - Sales to Sub-Postmasters «PC PR 05

9 Revised 14.6.1997
* indicates alteration or addition to previously circulated Agenda

POCL CLIENTS

Benefits Agency

(a) P&A Order Book Redesign

(b) Benefits Agency Reward Scheme ..........:ssesueeseees

BBC

(a) TV Licence Fee Stamps/Saving Stamp

Girobank

(a) Alliance & Leicester - Giro/Post Office Report

Lotteries

(a) Littlewoods Scratchcards
Scratchcards - Lucky Jackpot and Win for Life
Future Sales Strategy

Stock Withdrawal

Department of National Savings

(a) Account Opening - Evidence of Identity

Parcelforce

(a) Parcelforce Contract Customers

Royal Mail

10. (a) Mails Markets Liaison Meeting

(b) “Success through Sales” .......ccscsssesssseeeesssseessesssnes

A/1l_ REPORT ON CENTRAL APPEALS

10

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

CL BA 03

CL BA 06

CL BC 03

oN

CL NS 07 03

CL PF 05 05

Revised 14.6.1997

* indicates alteration or addition to previously circulated Agenda
NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

A/12_ GENERAL SECRETARY'S REPORT
Web Site on the Internet

Discussion on the Future Structure/Strategy of the
National Federation of Sub-Postmasters.

A/13_) NFSP TRADING LIMITED

A/l4. EXECUTIVE OFFICER'S REPORTS

A/IS MATTERS RECEIVED TOO LATE FOR INCLUSION ON AGENDA

A/6 ANY OTHER BUSINESS

11 Revised 14.6.1997
* indicates alteration or addition to previously circulated Agenda

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

REPORT OF A MEETING OF THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL
held on 16th, 17th, 18th JUNE 1997
at the ABBEY HOTEL, MALVERN

Present: Mr J Peberdy, National President and Chairman
Mr I Abemethy Mr BG Ingham
Mr J Brennan Mr J Jannetta

Mr D T Broadwith Mr C Jones
Mr J E M Burford Mrs J G Kendall

Mr A M Burrows Mr D F Marshall

Mr A R Butlin Mr B McMahon

Mr M Challinor Mr H Morgan Jones

Mr M Darvilt Miss E O Parcell

Mr R Edmondson
In Attendance: Mr C Baker General Secretary

Mr K Davis Assistant General Secretary

Mr P Heasman Assistant General Secretary
Apologies: Mr. N Bradbrook

Mr.DA Evans

THE CHAIRMAN Welcomed._evenianate-.the meeting, in particular Mr. R.

Edmondson} Apologies had. hean.ranainund. anny
M

~-nwerers.” Apologies had also been received

trom Mir.

It was noted that two Sub-Postmasters had been honoured with the MBE in the
Queen's Birthday Honours List, namely Mrs. Win Smith aged 87 years and Mr.
Charles Sparrow who had served for 57 years. The usual letter of congratulation
would be sent together with a Copy of the Centenary Book.

MR. EDMONDSON,

‘ween aUie Ww prep:

National Treasurer.

(etcetera bh

to Mr. P. Bloor, marked “private and confidential” at Shoreham. As regards the —--
Federation's finances, Mr. Bloor would be Producing the six month balance sheet of
accounts which would be circulated to the Executive Council early in August. He
requested Executive Officers not to wait until the October meeting to ask questions,

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997 1

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

MR. EDMONDSON informed the Council that the financial situation of the
Federation was still very tight. They were only just keeping their head above water
and during the past six months had used £400,000 of the investments which
reduced the interest eamed. The Federation could not afford to cash any more of
its investments, The increase in subscriptions would commence at the end of
August but the position on re-mandating was known. He stated the very existence
of the Federation was under threat. MR. EDMONDSON begged the Executive
Council not to commit the Federation to unnecessary extra spending, with one
exception to be notified by the Chairman of the Publicity & Development Committee.
He drew attention to the report Membership - Developing a Strategy prepared by
Mrs. Davis at his request and hoped the Council would agree to more information
_heina.souaht and planning for the future.

AM REPORTS AND RESOLUTIONS of the ¢
Executive Council Meeting held on 16, 17, 18, 19 March 1997
Special Executive Council Meeting held on 11 May 1997
Post Conference Meeting held on 14 May 1997

The reports had been circulated and were APPROVED.

Al2 MATTERS ARISING FROM THE REPORTS

MISS PARCELL expressed her thanks for the research undertaken in respect of the
lay member elected to the General Purposes Committee.

MR. BURROWS felt there was still some ambiguity as to the lay member of
the General Purposes Committee. In order to clarify the position he gave
notice of motion for the October 4997 meeting of the Executive Council to the
effect that the lay member shall not be a member of any of the Executive (
Council Committees and to be elected annually. .

THE CHAIRMAN confirmed the motion would be debated at the October meeting of
the Executive Council.

AZ REPORTS OF MEETINGS OF THE NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE

1 POST OFFICE BOARD_- PO BD

MR BURROWS, Chairman of the Negotiating Committee, advised there was nothing to
report under this subject, Board activity being understandably quiet in the period of political
change.

2 EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997
2 GOVERNMENT REVIEW . PO PZ

used. The Brief maintained the views Of the Federation which have consistently been held
over the years as successive Governments have reviewed The Post Office.

A number of commitments were Sought from the Minister which we did not seriously expect
to get and which he was reluctant to provide. He did, however, leave us with a number of

He also indicated that he felt that automation of the network was essential and he supported
the principle of PFis which, of course, was Part of the new Labour approach to funding as set

small businesses and asked us to consider what joint ventures we could put to him for
consideration.

brand was the next to the ‘Strongest brand on the high street and there was every Intention to
retain the cypher and Crown for Royal Mall. He was, however, eager to find a way of giving
greater commercial freedom and seemed not to be as worried as the Conservative Party
fegarding the competition, although having a fesponsibility being part of the DTI in ensuring
that competition was considered, Having made comments on the EFL and the £30 million
cross subsidy, the Minister asked us to make direct submissions to the Low Pay Commission
and the General Secretary wrote on 13th June.

The meeting that the Negotiating Committee had with Jonathan Evans on 3rd June was todo
with the Post Office's submissions to the Goverment review. Jonathan Evans made it clear
that the finances of the Counters Business would be Particularly strained now that the
conversion programme had been stopped by the Goverment. There was also a possible
impact upon security, automation and pay.

« MISS PARCELL requested a formal report of the meeting held on 5th ~

June 1997 with the Minister be circulated to the Executive Council.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY requested that the Executive Council advised
him of any suggestions they had regarding the requests made by the
Minister.

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING ~ JUNE 1997 3

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

3(a) POST OFFICE COUNTERS BOARD - PO PC 02

The correspondence dated 10th April 1997 referred to changes to the operational workings of
the Counters Board which effectively made Jonathan Evans the Operations Director, even
though his title will remain Network Director. There were a number of other changes which
did not directly impact upon the workings of the Federation with Post Office Counters, but
one area of disappointment was that Dave Morphey, who was David Taylor's replacement for
Business Strategy was the Director, Human Resources, teplacing the role that Jonathan
Evans took away from Bob Peaple. Our disappointment being that we have yet to meet
Dave Morphey and we sense a distancing between the Federation and the Human Resources
section of the Post Office Directorate. As our dealings are now mainly with the Retail
Development Centre it was even more disappointing to report that Alex Docherty! i
nN was unlikely to be seen within the next 4 or 5 weeks.
implications for all the disciplines in which the Federation was in discussion with Post Office
Counters and our frustrations would be reported under the appropriate agenda items.

3(b) ORGANISATION OF DISTRIBUTION WITHIN POCL - PO PC 03

The issue 2 of the Logistics ‘87 was circulated on 4th dune to the Executive Council and it
was seen that the Counters Business was taking the matter of distribution seriously. We
needed to ensure full involvement in this function to ensure that ‘Sub-Postmasters received
what they wanted, how they wanted it and when they wanted it. We were pleased to see that
Post Office Counters was developing this unit which should focus upon Sub-Postmasters'
needs. A watch was needed to ensure that it did not become yet another empire within the
Counters Business, Sub-Postmasters coming at the end of the line. Therefore, full
involvement would be maintained with the distribution function and Executive Officers
advised of developments as they occurred. Part of that Involvement was a meeting which
took place between the Negotiating Committee and Byron Roberts and 3 members of his
team on 28th April. That had started the ball rolling and a further meeting was being sought.

4 EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997
NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

5 MARKETING BRIEFINGS - PC CM 01

The correspondence referred to a draft Courier article which was changed after submission of
the draft to the Federation and references to agreed standards were deleted. It is understood
the article was reasonably innocuous and caused no concem to Sub-Postmasters. Post
Office Counters was clearly concentrating and consolidating on their current retail offers and
in the light of the Goverment review would be unlikely to extend into other areas for the
duration of the review.

6 TRAINING FOR SUB-POSTMASTERS - PC HR 04

In questioning Jonathan Evans on 3rd June he made it clear that training for Sub- I
Postmasters was still a priority for the Counters Business for induction training and on-going t
training. That was, of course, quite apart from the training required for counter automation
which would be addressed under that heading. Although the Training QIP had not produced
anything of great merit, in spite of the attention given by the Federation, no reports were
being received of Sub-Postmasters not being able to vacate their offices due to an inability of
the Counters Business to produce trainers for the in-coming Sub-Postmaster. The question
of training was still a subject which would be raised in the Network Forum meetings to be t
chaired by Jonathan Evans and training would remain a key objective of the Federation with Hi
Post Office Counters.

Attention was drawn to the lack of trainers in the Leeds area, a case quoted of a
new Sub-Postmaster who had to wait 3 months for training, which had been on-
going with two Heads of Retail Network for the last month. MR. BURROWS
undertook to take the matter back.

7 MAILWORK PAYMENT SYSTEM _- PC MP 04

The new payment system and agreement for mailwork seemed to be bedding down quite
well, Complaints to Federation Headquarters had virtually stopped and now consisted only of
individuat office correspondence where there were specific problems. The next Mailwork
Forum meeting was scheduled for 24th June when a further update on the offices which had
migrated from A to B would be provided. There was evidence that there had been a
significant delay in the mailwork specifications for individual offices which should have been i
Prepared by now. However, the announcement at Conference regarding the £5 million being }
made available by Royal Mall to assess the quality of accommodation and ensure that they
conformed to health and safety work standards was the subject of an article in the June 1997
Courier. Any delay in risk assessment visits, therefore, should soon be corrected as part of
the programme. It was hoped Executive Officers welcomed the initiative which indicated the
commitment to the new agreement by Royal Mail as well as Post Office Counters and should
be seen as excelient news for the Mailwork Sub-Postmasters,

8(a) NETWORK FORUMS - PC NW 01

The combination of the announcement of the Government Review and the absen

RO: of Alex Docherty meant there had not been a meeting of the Network Forum. That
Tiighit, however, have been fortuitous as the networking plans of Post Office Counters have
now taken a significant knock. it was even more essential that the Federation was involved
in the networking decisions of Post Office Counters as the cessation of the conversions of
Crown Offices could lead to Post Office Counters looking in the direction of the sub office
network to make up the shortfall as a result of the embargo by Government on conversions.

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997 5

We have started properly by making representations to the Minister and also by having
Jonathan Evans to meet with the Negotiating Committee. Both the Minister and Jonathan
Evans have promised on-going consultation and Jonathan Evans made it clear in his
presentation that he welcomed the Federation's involvement at Regional as well as national
level in the formulation of the Counters Business network plans. We will, therefore, be
working with Jonathan Evans to put together a series of regular scheduled Network Forum
meetings, constructing terms of reference and ensuring Regional involvement on the
development of the plans. {t was clear that Post Office Counters would want to include
raising the standard of post offices as part of those Network Forums and the General
Secretary was exploring the possibility of Professor Gary Davis of the Manchester Business
School who had done considerable work on the retail side for Post Office Counters, including
the involvement of Retail Network Managers, to address the Negotiating Committee as part
of the Network Forums. The whole subject of the future of post offices was likely to take on a
new dimension and the involvement of the Federation was essential and would be pursued
with the Network Director and, indeed, with Government to ensure that Sub-Postmasters did
not feel the pain of Post Office Counters cessation of its conversion programme.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY drew attention to the grave situation in which Post
Office Counters had found themselves as they had been anticipating receiving £10
million from Franchise Offices. The Post Office was also spending £24 million on
automation. The situation would impact upon Sub-Postmasters, The speed with
which meetings had taken place with the Minister and Jonathan Evans was
indicative of the seriousness of the matter, although the information could not be
telayed to members: However, members could be told that they needed a
tepresentative body to represent Sub-Postmasters to the Minister and the Post
Office because they were vulnerable. Goverment had given an assurance that
automation was sacrosanct. The Minister had indicated he would contact the
Treasury regarding the EFL.

In response to MR. ABERNETHY, the GENERAL SECRETARY said he was unable
to itemise the breakdown of the £24 million to be spent on automation. It was
necessary to accept the automation platform cost money but was not yet generating
work. Items of current costs were the directorate, a project delivery group, liaison
managers, payment to Pathway. It was a long term project for the future.

MISS PARCELL felt reference to lack of money was the Post Office preparing for
pay talks yet they continued to spend money on Roadshows which cost thousands
of pounds.

In response to MR. McMAHON’s question as to whether Regions were being told in
no uncertain terms to involve Executive Officers, MR. BURROWS stated they were
not and suggested fighting their way in.

MR. BURROWS commented that Government could not take £10 million out of a
profit expectation of £30 million, less £24 million, leaving £11 million and a profit of
£1 million. Mr. McCartney had been prepared to take the matter back and had
listened to the views of the Federation.

In reply to MR. JANNETTA’s comment as to whether Mr. Docherty was totally ~~

indispensable that his Department could not work without him, MR. BURROWS
advised day to day dealings were with Messrs. Granville and Evans. The difficulty
at the moment was the Govemment decision which had decimated the budgets.
Every budget had been re-visited both in the Centre and Regions. The embargo on
the conversion programme had had more effect than the absence of Mr. Docherty.

6 EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

oN
NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

Every time the Post Office sought new business it had to be referred to the DTI;
wider commercial freedom was sought by the Post Office primarily for Royal Mail.

MR. BRENNAN pointed out 18,000 Sub-Postmasters were still waiting for a pay
tise. He asked when pay would be settled, the reason for delay and why the
Negotiating Committee was not negotiating with Post Office Counters,

MR. BURROWS reiterated the Govemment decision apropos conversions had
seriously impacted on the Post Office as well as Sub-Postmasters. The Federation
had explained to Government the repercussion, the effect on the rural network,
security and pay. The Federation had been to Government on numerous occasions
and would continue to do so because they were playing a greater influence in the
tunning of the business. The policies of the new Govemment were not known. Pay
negotiations with other organisations, including the UCW were on holiday whilst the
business re-assessed its financial situation. It was hoped once the significance of
the Government decision was re-assessed negotiations would continue. He did not
intend to give up.

8(b) LOCAL AREA NETWORK PLANS - PC NW 02

I Irrelevant

MR. MARSHALL advised Jonathan Clarke from Royal Mail would be working part
time with the Retail Development Centre on Conformance and networking policy. At
the same he would be looking at @ncouraging larger offices to change to a franchise
contract.

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997 7

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

The minutes of the Negotiating Committee of 2nd and 3rd June gave a comprehensive report

on the position regarding Counter Automation at this time. Clearly far more work had to be

done in the network than Post Office Counters had originally envisaged but the pilots in the

North East and the South West were proving extremely valuable as the main issues were

becoming clearer. The outputs from the meeting of the General Secretary with Paul Rich

and John Bennett were appended to the back of those minutes but the important thing was

that automation was proceeding and a considerable amount of energy and resources were

being put into the network to ensure that the programme continues. Counter automation was I
an issue that was specifically raised with the Minister at the meeting on Sth June and, as :
reported, the Minister confirmed that Government would continue to press ahead with the I
automation of the Counters Business. Following the information given to Conference

regarding the in principle agreements that have been reached with the Counters Business

regarding the payment for the transactions undertaken under the platform, the General I
Secretary and Mr. Burrows were due to see Post Office Counters again on 26th June to i
continue the discussions. Clearly there will be some difficulty as Alex Docherty will not be i
present. However, an assurance had been received that Jonathan Evans and Mike Granville

were empowered to make decisions. It was hoped so because the subject was very dear to (
Sub-Postmasters' hearts and one to which we should now be formulating answers. There i
was not only payment for the work but questions over payment for training and payment for I
modifications and alterations, including electricity, which also needed to be resolved and in i
spite of the financial difficulties which the Goverment Review had put the Post Office

Counters under, there was a commitment to continue with automation and, therefore, the

need to resolve those problems.

i
8(c) COUNTER AUTOMATION - BA/POCL - PC NW 06 014 . I

Also discussed under this subject heading was the recruitment of Sub-Postmasters and their

staff as Field Support Officers. The information regarding that was appended to the back of

the minutes of 2nd and 3rd June. The need to recruit Support Officers had been created

because of the Goverment Review when, because of the cessation of the conversion

programme, it meant that staff originally scheduled from Branch Offices and trained as

Support Officers would no longer be available. Therefore, there was a specific need to

recruit. Regretfully the Federation was not consulted regarding the financial reward that the

Field Support Officers would receive and the Counters Business had been asked to desist

from further recruitment until the question was addressed. Other correspondence on the

subject of automation was the correspondence dated 8th May regarding non-cash account

offices. That information was provided to Conference and had been the subject of further

discussions since then. Our argument was that non-cash account offices could easily remain

non-cash account offices if they chose to do so until the point at which they were automated. (
At that time, although they would become cash account offices, there would be no need for a \
cash account to be completed. That point was put to Jonathan Evans on 3rd June and he

took it away. A response was awaited, but it was understood the matter was currently being

reviewed, There was also the letter dated 29th April advising that benefit receipt copies

could be kept in transaction order and would not need to be sorted into value order,

MR. BROADWITH informed the Council that he had received a letter advising his
office would not be going on-line in November as originally scheduled as the Post
Office was concentrating on non-APT offices. THE GENERAL SECRETARY was
not aware of that policy decision. He stressed any information was vital and should
be advised to Federation Headquarters. _

MR. EDMONDSON confirmed priority for non-APT offices in the Leeds area. Due to
misleading information in respect of health and safety requirements and space
being given during a survey, a Sub-Postmaster had not signed the agreement to
install automation.

8 EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997
MR. JANNETTA wondered as to Progress for a payment for training. Did the
Federation have a policy? Screen 2000 did not conform to the size required for
automation.

MISS PARCELL reported of a case where the installation of Screen 2000 had
entailed the whole office being fe-designed and the wall safe being moved. The
Retail Network Manager had refused financial assistance and the Sub-Postmaster
Now refused the automation equipment.

With regard to Field Support Officers, MR. MARSHALL advised they had been
recruited from within the Post Office and not from Sub-Postmasters,

MR. BROADWITH advised Branch Secretaries in the South West had recently been
invited to an awareness event which had been quite well presented.

MR. BURROWS drew attention to the correspondence circulated regarding Field
Support Officers. The Post Office had anticipated between 500 and 700 staff being
released under the conversion Programme to be re-trained for the implementation of
automation. The concept was for a Field Support Officer to be with the Sub-
Postmaster for 2% days when the office was automated. It was advocated that the
Federation approached the Post Office and tried to get Branch Secretaries and
other enthusiasts involved to assist Sub-Postmasters in automation. The difficulty
of a mis-balance when automation commenced needed to be discussed with the
Post Office. He recommended that Sub-Postmasters be invited locally to offer their
services as Field Support Officers for the delivery of automation as he felt many
Branch Secretaries and activists would jump at the opportunity to help their
Colleagues to ensure smooth transition. It would be necessary to ensure that local
holiday reliefs would remain available to Sub-Postmasters.

MISS PARCELL questioned who would pay for the training of Sub-Postmasters’
assistants.

MR. INGHAM pointed out there would not be a problem if the Sub-Postmaster
conducted the training, but if the Post Office extended @ payment through the Sub-
Postmaster that would involve national insurance payments.

© THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL AGREED to an in principle agreement for
Sub-Postmasters to be included in those who became Field Support
Officers

THE GENERAL SECRETARY reported on his visit to the trial taking place in
Newcastle. The problem of lack of information to Sub-Postmasters was being
addressed by Post Office Counters. ,

With regard to the awareness sessions and training, MR. BURROWS pointed out it
was at the discretion of the Sub-Postmaster whether or not to circulate the letter to
their assistants from Post Office Counters.

Attention was drawn to the complications of national insurance with two separate
contracts for Field Support Officers; many part time assistants had more than one
employer,

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997 9

NFSP00000452

NFSP00000452

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

It was felt the position of Field Support Officers should only be open to Sub-
Postmasters to apply, giving rise to the question of equal opportunities.

« THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL AGREED to seek the Post Office to restrict
the applicants for the position of Field Support Officers to Sub-
Postmasters.

THE CHAIRMAN pointed out the initiative had been in the North East Region only.
The matter had been raised with Jonathan Evans who had agreed to take the
matter back. They were progressing the national approach in which the Federation
would have some input.

MR. BROADWITH suggested as the project was vital that Sub-Postmasters might
be prepared to attend training sessions at no payment to themselves, but a
payment be made to assistants. I

MR. C. JONES expressed concem that if the training payment was not pursued it :
might hinder the Federation as members would object. He advocated a payment for “ I
training, with which MR. JANNETTA agreed. C

MR. MARSHALL drew attention of the difficulty at smaller offices which would have
to close in order to attend training.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY commented training was mandatory. it was
necessary to agree a payment for the transactions. At the moment Sub-
Postmasters in the trial area had not been asked to contribute to the cost of any
modifications required in their offices.

MR. BURROWS suggested a compromise by Sub-Postmasters themselves not
being paid but a payment for assistants be sought. The Post Office had taken back
the travel and subsistence elements. Sub-Postmaster would benefit at the end of
the day and automation would be the safeguard of the network and individual
business, from which assistants would also benefit financially.

MR. CHALLINOR pointed out Sub-Postmasters were already contracted to provide
training for assistants.

oN

MR. ABERNETHY put forward the suggestion that small or one-man offices could
be visited by a trainer.

MR. DARVILL commented normally assistants were trained on the counter. The
Post Office stood to gain a lot of money out of Horizon.

MR. BURROWS agreed the contract could be used to make a point but had
difficulty balancing that with the transactional training around the country where
Sub-Postmasters’ assistants were paid. It was a new innovation. Peritas had been
set up to train Sub-Postmasters and their staff who would have to go off site for
training. For the small offices it might be possible to use a multiplier to calculate
loss of work. He confirmed substitution and travel would be taken back, likewise
payment for assistants.

10 . EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997
THE GENERAL SECRETARY Pointed out the debate would not be published
anywhere except within the minutes which were strictly confidential to the National
Executive Council,

¢ THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL AGREED to the Negotiating Committee
seeking a payment for Sub-Postmasters’ assistants; subsistence and

In response to MR. BROADWITH, the GENERAL SECRETARY confirmed
awareness seminars were considered to be training seminars/sessions,

After the presentation on 16th June 1997 organised by Pathway, the following
points were made:-

Lack of communication, particularly in the South West Region where it was not
known that Jackie Hackston, Horizon Awareness Manager, was working. it was
Suggested she became the focal point.

Branch meetings be utilised to communicate.

Publish an “Automation Comer” in The SubPostmaster journal.

In Ireland 2 cases were known where the Retail Network Manager was not helping
to make automation a success,

The Awareness Event be Split into two presentations,

It was suggested more input be given to Federation Headquarters, Possibly by
weekly updates from Executive Officers rather than wait for meetings to pass
information on. Feedback to be received from the 2 Regions involved in the roll out.

Concem in respect of the mis-information emanating from Regional General
Managers.

At the time of survey a mock-up or carcass of the kit should be taken to assist with
assessment.

Concer was expressed tegarding the necessity to swipe the card through the
keyboard, although it was understood the attachment of equipment to the side of
the screen would necessitate Fe-structuring the system and add to the costs,

Seek to address the Problem of passing information between Pathway and Post
Office Counters and involve the Federation.

The General Secretary to visit the Stroud area,
Try to secure an input from the Federation into the ergonomics,

Executive Officers to contact Regional General Managers and build up a repartee.

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997 4

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

a(d) COUNTER AUTOMAT ON - APTIBAR-CODING - PC NW.06 02

It was suggested that this subject was discharged to be brought back should there be any
further need to discuss it.

MR. CHALLINOR expressed concern at the lack of availability of further APTs.
Norweb had commenced a trial in the NWNW Region. Post Office Counters did not
have a signed contract but an assurance from Norweb that a contract would be
signed when the Post Office was in a position to have automation throughout the
system. If Horizon could be installed in offices without APT machines then every
office in the NWNW Region would have equipment to enable Norweb to rofl out. He
requested pressure be applied to Post Office Counters. He believed automated
transactions were carried out by Vortex (similar to BACS) who were in a position to
offer Norweb a full automation system for the bill payment market. If the Post Office I
could not put more offices on line it was likely Paypoint would gain the work. He I
understood Girobank was going to be the marketers and sales for Post Office I

Counters.

MR. BURROWS advised the General Secretary had written to Stuart Sweetman on
30th May, but a response had not been received. Nothing was known about
Girobank acting as the sales force for Post Office Counters. At a recent meeting
with Richard Banks of Girobank no mention was made of the change.

* THE GENERAL SECRETARY undertook to make further enquiries
regarding Vortex and Girobank acting as the sales force for Post
Office Counters.

MR. JANNETTA reported complaints from Sub-Postmasters who considered 12p for
APT transactions was too low when the bar-coded transactions were transferred to
plastic card payments. The specific complaint was that the APT transaction at 12p
was not cost effective because of the size of the in-payment and make up.
MR. BURROWS stated in many cases it was the client who wanted to change to
plastic cards in order to be more efficient. If Sub-Postmasters did not accept the

changes, then others would pick up the business, ie Paypoint.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY requested evidence as to the volume of in-payments
made for the transactions in order that he could pursue the matter with Post Office
Counters.

g(e) COUNTER AUTOMATION - ALPS - PC NW 06 07

Under this heading was the question of the goodwill payment for Sub-Postmasters and a
claim had been lodged with the Retail Development Centre. The Executive Council was
advised at the March meeting that the matter was unresolved. Since then Alex Docherty has
not been seen and the Review of the Counters Business has been announced which had~~
thrown the finance projections into disarray. The point would continue to be pressed but it
was an extremely difficult time in which to expect the matter to be resolved.

12 EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997
8(f) COUNTER AUTOMATION - MONDEX TRIAL - PC NW 06 08

It was AGREED to discharge this item from the A/3 agenda.

8(g) FUNDING OF SPSOs - PC NW 09 03
—_em Os _- PC NW 09 03

This subject was now firmly captured in the discussions with Post Office Counters on the
distribution function circulated under 3(b). The issue was considerably wider than funding of
Sub post offices, indeed it included the cash, stock and forms and the centralisation of the
distribution function. The Federation’s involvement would need to be ensured and it was
Suggested that the previous correspondence forwarded under 3(b) be transferred to this
Subject heading to be discussed under Network, but under the title of the Distribution within
Post Office Counters. AGREED

SECURITY

9a) POCLNFSP MEETINGS - PC NW 1101

9(b) DEVOLUTION OF BUDGET TO REGIONS - PC NW 1104
-REGIONAL SECURITY FORUMS,
= CUSTODY OF KEYS
~PERSONAL GUIDE TO SECURITY

9(c) EQUIPMENT - PC NW 14 02
- NEW SPSO ANTI-BANDIT SCREEN (SPSO 2000)
ACCESS DOORS

-ANTIANTRUDER ALARM GRANTS

:PROPOSED TRIAL OF REMOTE ALARM

SIGNALLING
9(d) TRAUMA CARE PROGRAMME - PC NW 11 02
9(e) CASHCO - PC NW 11 08
9(f) ROMEC - PC NW 1109

MR. BURROWS reported that the minutes of the last meeting held on 25th April 1997, had
been cleared and circulated to the Executive Council. Two issues would be referred back to
Post Office Counters. Much of the information required by the Executive Council was
contained within the minutes The question of devolution of budgets to Regions was
discussed and reported under Paragraph 2.4. There was a question regarding the reported
£1 million now totalling for the Screen 2000 budget. However, following the meeting with
Jonathan Evans it is now known that all the budgets within the Counters Business were to be
reviewed. Therefore, information regarding the security budget can only be taken as being
appropriate up until the announcement of the Review of the Counters Business, That point
had been made during the meeting with the Minister.

Progress could be reported on the Regional Security Forums and Executive Officers were
urged to press the Security Division to ensure that the Regional security budget was not
raided for other purposes within the Region.

NFSP00000452

NFSP00000452

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997 13

NFSP00000452

Irrelevant

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

11 CUSTOMER FIRST - PC QY 01

- CHANGE IN FOCUS OF THE QUALITY FUNCTION
- PUTTING THE CUSTOMER FIRST - TRANSACTIONAL TRAINING
- PUTTING THE CUSTOMER FIRST - CHANGES

TO THE QUESTIONNAIRE

Nothing to report.

SUBPOSTMASTERS CONTRACT

12(a) TERMINATION PROCEDURES - PC SC

A fesponse was awaited from Post Office Counters Ltd. to our latest representations on
termination procedures. {It was known that the Counters Business was running the latest draft
past their Solicitors Department, which was a lengthy process. Mr. Granville was reminded
on 3rd June that a response was awaited. It had been made clear that the Federation wished
the matter to be resolved within the next 3 weeks and a meeting was being sought.

MR. DARVILL drew attention of the Problems in respect of Toft PO in the North !
Thames and East Anglia Region. He requested the case be pursued further. MR.
BURROWS stated the case had already been referred to Federation Headquarters
and Post Office Counters Headquarters.

12(b) INTRODUCTORY PAYMENT - PC SC 04

There was nothing to feport. One heel tap remained as a result of the pay review
discussions, that being those Sub-Postmasters who were already paying the introductory
Payment, which had not been resolved with Mr. Granville, but the point would continue to be
pressed.

MR. EDMONDSON drew attention to the financial advantage to Post Office

Counters with the change to monthly payment of the introductory fee as any pay

increase was subject to the 25% deduction. _

* THE GENERAL SECRETARY stated the monthly deduction of the
introductory fee was being verified with the Retail Development
Centre.

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997 15

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

12(e) LOSS OF OFFICE (Compensation Ai reement) - PC SC 12

The amendment to the Trust Deed was agreed at the pre-Conference meeting and the letter (
of 16th May confirmed the agreement. The document would be signed shortly. N

12(f) PAYPOINT - PC SC 21 01

The letter of 30th May to the Managing Director was an action point from Conference in an
endeavour to increase the APT network. The publicity generated about Paypoint was not all
that favourable to them. Nevertheless Paypoint was establishing themselves as an
altemative network to Post Office Counters for bill payment work and we must not ease up in
our campaign to get as many automated post offices as possible. That point was raised
specifically with the Minister and it had been established that 5,600 offices contained APTs.
It was understood from Mrs. Kendall, as reported in the Negotiating Committee minutes, that
Paypoint had signed a contract with Northem Electric for 3 years which was exclusive to
them but there was some doubt about whether Paypoint could establish the outlets that they
required with what they were prepared to pay.

MR. INGHAM reported Paypoint was opening an outlet in Sheffield in the near
future. :

o—~

12(g) NIPOC - PC SC 28

Following pressure applied to John Legg to resolve the NIPOC problems with Post Office
Counters, the letter dated 10th June confirmed that POCL would consider removing
individual Sub-Postmasters from the non-staff model.

« It was suggested the information be published in The SubPostmaster
journal and a Fact Sheet prepared to cover the point in order to
advise any Sub-Postmaster so affected that it was possible to—-
withdraw.

16 EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997
NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

SUBPOSTMASTERS PAY
13(a) PAY REVIEW - PC SP

The Branch Secretaries’ Circular dated 6th June 1997 contained the agreed contractual I
amendments which would be sent to each Sub-Postmaster. Also provided to Branch
Secretaries were coples of the revision documents and the pay advice, both of which had
been promised at Annual Conference. Some of the Box 13 issues remained outstanding
from the pay review. No further meetings had been held with Post Office Counters.
Progress had been thwarted by the sickness of Mr. Docherty and the need to process the
1997 pay claim. One issue raised at the March Executive Council meeting and which
remained unresolved was the question of those Sub-Postmasters who were currently paying
the introductory fee. We have pressed Mr. Granville on this as hard as we possibly can and
although he has yet to convey formally his decision in this regard it did appear they were
unlikely to agree, arguing that there was only a finite sum of money which could go to Sub-
Postmasters and there was a question mark over whether that was the best use of those
resources implying that if they ceased to take off the residue of the introductory fee for those
new Sub-Postmasters there would be less to share in the form of a pay increase or possibly
directed towards the automation costs than would be had those Payments continued. A
formal response was awaited but it seemed unlikely it would be favourable. !

13(b) PAY CLAIM 1997_- PC SP/1997

The minutes of the meeting held on 29th April with Post Office Counters had been circulated.
A further meeting was awaited with Post Office Counters on this subject. In discussing the
matter with Jonathan Evans he made it significantly clear that whilst the Goverment was
teviewing the Post Office and whilst the moratorium on conversions was taking place, Post
Office Counters could not assess how much of thelr budget was available for Sub-
Postmasters’ pay increase. That may have been a threat or, indeed, make us reflect that
view to the Minister to convince him to regenerate the conversion programme. Whatever it
was, a.response to our claim was still awaited from Post Office Counters and we must
proceed cautiously but, nevertheless, continue to press for a meeting. Unfortunately no
Progress could be reported and it was also important that the reason was retained strictly
within the Executive Council confines. The Negotiating Committee would continue to press
Jonathan Evans to respond and not wait for the return of Alex Docherty. Further information
would be provided as soon as available. i

MR. JANNETTA commented the membership would not appreciate the pay increase
being prolonged. He urged the matter be swiftly resolved.

MR. BURROWS stated the case had been made to Government to try to break the
deadiock. At the moment Post Office Counters fefused to negotiate pending
Confirmation of the decision of the Government. He was concemed that Post Office
profitability was dependant upon the conversions and questioned the Post Office
financial situation. Both Mr. Sweetman and Mr. Evans had indicated they wanted a
swift decision this year following the prolonged pay review,

MISS PARCELL asked what could be told to members.

MR. INGHAM was of the view that the more the Post Office delayed, the worse light
the Federation appeared in the eyes of the membership,

¢ THE GENERAL SECRETARY stated an explanation on pay would be
contained in the next General Secretary's Notes to be published in the
July edition of The SubPostmaster journal.

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997 17

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

- BAR-CODED BILLS AND AD VALOREM

Post Office Counters had indicated on a number of occasions that they wished to re-examine I
the current agreement on payment for bar-coded bills. It was fair to assume that this was
likely to result in an attempt to reduce the current payment of 20p plus ad valorem. For that
reason the Negotiating Committee had not pressed Post Office Counters on the issue. The
position remained the same as stated in Mr. Coleman's letter of 30th May 1996 when he
said: “! can confirm that we will not seek any changes in the remuneration rate for utility bills
(ie 20p plus ad valorem) as a result of the introduction of bar-coding until we have had
discussions with the Federation on the issue.”

oo

Irrelevant

as

13(e) TELEPHONE ALLOWANCES - PC SP 02 06

Proposals were-awaited from Post Office Counters in connection with a new way of providing
Sub-Postmasters with a telephone and telephone call allowance as put to Conference.
Undoubtedly progress on the matter had also been affected by the financial difficulties
currently being experienced by the Post Office. The matter would be pursued as it was the
subject of a Conference resolution.

14 BENEFITS AGENCY - CL BA

15 BRITISH GAS - APT BILL PAYMENT - CL BG 02 —
16 BRITISH TELECOM - CL BT

17. ELECTRICITY BOARDS - CL_EB

18 FOREIGN EXCHANGE - CL.FEX

There was nothing to report on any of items, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18.

18 EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997
NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

GIROBANK

19(a) NFSP/Girobank Meetings - CL.GB O41

The General Secretary and Mr. Burrows met with Richard Banks, Managing Director of
Girobank, and Bill Sutton at Girobank on Friday, 6th June at which time Girobank
demonstrated their new debit card acceptance card procedure. Girobank was anxious for the
Federation to press Post Office Counters to take on the acceptance of debit cards at
Counters and we were impressed with Girobank’s ability to process these payments. The
difficulty was, of course, that prior to the automation going into post offices it would entail
extra equipment for the card reader and printer. Whilst the size of that was impressively
small it, nevertheless, was an extra piece of equipment at the counter which would be
redundant once the automation platform was installed with debit card reading a function on
that platform. There was no doubt of Girobank's ability to cope in the market place with the
debit card scheme and having seen it can urge Post Office Counters to press ahead as part
of the automation platform. There was also the Possibility of two tier meetings with Girobank
which would be carried out on an on-going basis. There would be a strategic level with the
Managing Director and his team and an operational function to deal with issues which were i
required to deliver the product to the customer. There was clearly no need to duplicate i
attendances at the meetings and the Negotiating Committee would split with Mr. Burrows,

Mr. Peberdy, the General Secretary attending strategic meetings, the rest of the Committee

dealing with operational aspects.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY reported Girobank was spending a lot of money in i
preparing for automation. There was no difficulty with other banks being part of the i
platform and discussions were taking place with Post Office Counters.

19(b) PRODUCTS AND COUNTER SERVICES - CL.GB 08
20 INSURANCE - CLIN

Nothing to report on items 19(b) and 20,

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997 19

PERSONAL BANKING
25 PERSONAL FINANCIAL SERVICES - CL PB
~_TRIAL IN NORTH WALES & NORTH WEST REGION

Further information was being sought regarding the trial of personal banking in the North
Wales and North West but there was no additional information other than the trial was so
successful that it spread Into the Midlands. Girobank's views were sought on the trial at the
meeting on 6th June and Girobank was not concemed unduly about the trial, indeed, hoped
that it would be a success. Naturally their contract with Post Office Counters would need to
be structured again to reflect that they no fonger had exclusivity but everyone, it seemed,
was in favour of the trial and encouraging all to do well within it. Further information would
be provided when available.

=
a )
D
©
<
9)
=
om a

ROYAL MAIL
27 PRIORITY SERVICES - Cl. RM 05 02

There was nothing to report on the matter. The question of the payment for Priority Service
items, both inland and international, remained an item in Box 13, although it was reported
that Post Office Counters continued to resist Federation proposals for any increase for this
type of transaction. a

Irrelevant

20 EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

>
NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

Irrelevant

THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL AGREED to delete both items from the
agenda, to be dealt with under Sub-Postmasters pay

30 MONEYGRAM_- CL WU

The correspondence circulated proposed a change to the method of payment for the money
transfer service now being provided via Moneygram. It was recalled that when the service
was provided by Westem Union the payment to Sub-Postmasters for both sending and
receiving transactions was agreed at 12% of the commission paid by the customer. Post
Office Counters was proposing that the percentage-based payment should be replaced with a
Payment per transaction. They claimed that during the life of the Westem Union contract the
average value of the combined sent-and-received transactions was £350. AS Moneygram’s
charge for transmitting £350 would, at £18, be much lower than Westem Union's, that would
produce, at 12%, a payment to Sub-Postmasters of £2.16, which was the amount offered by
Post Office Counters as the transaction payment. The Negotiating Committee was of the
view that the offer was unacceptable for the work involved in the transaction.

MR. BRENNAN suggested a percentage was sought.

MR. BROADWITH pointed out Moneygram was still a restricted service and asked if
it would be expanded. i

MR. DARVILL drew attention to the lack of advertising.

¢ THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL mandated the Negotiating Committee to
re-open negotiations and pursue all elements, including lack of
advertising, to get the best possible for Sub-Postmasters.

ORGANISATIONS
31 POUNC - FM 00

The General Secretary and Mr. Burrows met with POUNC on 18th April to advise.in detail the
result of the Pay Review. The Chairman of POUNC and the Secretary seemed to grasp the
intricacies of the new Pay Review and it was felt it would be a ‘Suitable presentation to the full
Users’ Council. On 16th July a demonstration would be given to the User's Councils of
Scotland, Wales and Northem Ireland indicating the steps taken by the Federation to try to7~
retain the rural network and, indeed, incentivise them for growth,

* THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL APPROVED the report of the Negotiating
Committee.

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997 21

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

~ '

AIS SUB-COMMITTEE REPORTS

A) PUBLICITY AND DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE

1. REPORT OF THE PREVIOUS P&D MEETING:
14-15 April 1997 Buckingham

2. FEDERATION ANNUAL CONFERENCE
Annual Conference 12 - 14 May 1997 - Llandudno - FM AC 1997

Irrelevant —

Irrelevant

22 EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997
NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997 23

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

Irrelevant

“o~

Irrelevant

24 EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997
NFSP00000452

NFSP00000452

b) Federation Publications - “The SubPostmaster” - FM PB 01

c) Branch Secretaries Seminar, Keele, 13-14 September 1997 - FM MS 04

The overall timescale was planned to run from lunchtime Saturday until mid-aftemoon
Sunday, finishing in time to ensure that nobody had to leave before the end to catch trains or
planes. Provision had been made as last time for the Executive Council to meet on the
Friday to be briefed on the weekend's events. There were a number of topics scheduled to
be discussed, namely: # Support package for Branch Secretaries, ¢ Presentation to Branch
& Regional Treasurers, ¢ Membership, ¢ Purpose and format of Annual Conference. The
first two of these to also be presented. Mr Heasman would be working on the support
package during the summer and, together with the P&D, would be circulating proposals for
Executive Officers comments. This would be done by post, as the Seminar came before the ——-
next EC meeting, and would assume silence = assent. The last two items would be a two-
way exchange in order to be worthwhile and achieve a lasting outcome. Membership was a
Federation problem and whilst the EC might approach the Seminar with views, the Branches
needed to have views as well so that when delegates left Keele there was a Federation plan
with which all could agree. The same applied to the purpose and format of Conference.
MR BRENNAN therefore asked that every opportunity be take to encourage debate on these

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997 27

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

subjects during the coming months so that Branches were prepared. It was also intended to
show at least one film during the weekend, probably during the membership discussions.

Keele University required a commitment to a figure of people attending and this had been
agreed at 250, so he requested Branches to encouraged to attend. The figure was not
thought excessive because two would be Invited from each Branch, but Assistant Secretaries
and Membership Secretaries could attend if requested by Branches, plus Regional
Representative, the EC and Headquarters staff.

MR JANNETTA suggested adding Automation to the Agenda but THE GENERAL
SECRETARY discouraged that as he did not consider the timing appropriate. He
suggest Peter Abraham being invited to speak on aspects of Employment Law.

MR BUTLIN proposed that area/district secretaries/representatives be invited. The
Federation should support people who supported the Federation and these were
the people doing the job, particularly of remandating. MRS KENDALL seconded the
proposal, together with the idea’ of inviting Peter Abraham as the Helpline had
proved a success.

MR BRENNAN agreed it was an excellent idea and Peter Abraham would
be invited.

MISS PARCELL felt there should be provision for Executive Officers to meet with
delegates on Saturday evening and MR CYRIL JONES agreed, adding many would
appreciate a form of workshop. But MR BRENNAN was concerned that care should
be taken so delegates were not bored but such an arrangement.

There was some discussion on inviting area/district secretaries/representatives. It
was ascertained that this would result in approximately the following additional
delegates: NWNW +2, SWSW +4, NTEA +1, NE +14 (1 already Branch Secretary),
Sc +1 (1 already Branch Secretary), NI nil, Midland nil, SE nil, ie, a total of 8 which
was considered acceptable.

« THE CHAIRMAN, therefore, confirmed the DECISION of the Executive
Council to invite area/district secretaries/representatives to the
Branch Secretaries Seminar in Keele.

4. FEDERATION PROMOTIONAL AND PUBLICITY

a) Sub Post Offiée Exhibition, NEC Birmingham, 11-12 October 1997
FM PP 01

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

. ”

ACTIC,

28 EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING ~ JUNE 1997
NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997 29

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

Irrelevant

CONFERENCE RESOLUTIONS 1996 a
Subscription Review - 96/86

6. FUTURE DATES OF EC MEETINGS

The January 1998 meeting would take place in London at the Hotel Russell at a 24-hour
delegate rate of £110 per person. MR BRENNAN invited questions on the P&D Report.

MR JANNETTA asked if Mr Butlin’s suggestion of an EC meeting in Northem Ireland .
was to be considered but that matter was directed to be left in abeyance pending
the outcome of the P&D’s decision.

MR BURROWS wondered whether the timing of the June EC meeting was not too
close following Annual Conference In May - he recalled having been at EC Meetings
during Wimbledon fortnight. THE GENERAL SECRETARY said it could be
investigated but he was not aware that the timing had altered to occasion a change,
in that it seemed to have met on Father's Day for several years.

f
« THE CHAIRMAN confirmed that Council’s ACCEPTANCE of the P&D DECISIon

Report.

« Before the commencement of business on Wednesday 18th June,
THE GENERAL SECRETARY drew attention to an article which had
appeared in a national newspaper reporting that the new Government
intended doing away with the regulations requiring remandating of
members of Unions. Whilst it was intended that this should be drawn
to attention in a BSC, and he would try to be in contact with the
Minister to find out the implications and timescales, the news did not-~
immediately alter anything that had been discussed or planned and
signalled no change to anything the Federation had or was
organising.

30 EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997
NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

B) FEDERATION TRUSTEES REPORT

MR ABERNETHY reported the Trustees had met on
the National Treasurer, had been especially welcomed after,

The Trustees had approved the
Tenders had been acquired from 3 companies, the costs of these being broadly the same.
The decision had been made to accept the quote of Worthing Computers, totalling
£4,274.41 per annum. This, however, Fepresented only a marginal increase on what was

already being paid £4,188,18 - although it was noted that an addition would need to be made
in 18 months’ time when the file server warranty ran out.

proposals for a new computer maintenance agreement.

* THE CHAIRMAN confirmed ACCEPTANCE of the Federation Trustees
Report.

C) BOARD OF BENEVOLENCE REPORT i

Irrelevant I

Irrelevant

+ THE CHAIRMAN thanked her for the information, and confirmed
ACCEPTANCE of the Benevolent Fund Report.

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997 3

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

AI6 SPECIAL MATTERS

A) MEMBERSHIP
(i) New Membership Computer - Fl MR 01

Irrelevant

B) FINANCE
{i) Treasurer’s Report - Fl AC 02

Although MR EDMONDSON was not present to give an official Treasurer's Report,
his remarks at the beginning of the meeting had been noted and THE CHAIRMAN
asked that during his absence Executive Officers’ claims should be forwarded to
Philip Bloor at Federation Headquarters.

(ii) Outstanding Branch Accounts - Fl AC

THE GENERAL SECRETARY requested Executive Officers to facilitate the prompt
return of outstanding Branch Accounts to Federation Headquarters.

{ii) I Re-Mandating Exercise - Fl MR 01
(iv) Membership - Developing a strategy - FM MS 03

oo

See Agenda item A/S 3(a) Re-Mandating Exercise.
(v) South Wales & South West Region - FM OG 05

« THE CHAIRMAN confirmed the Council’s ACCEPTANCE of the Rules
as recommended without discussion.

(vi) Union Facilities - PC HR 03

THE GENERAL SECRETARY advised the Federation had £135,000 from the Post™~
Office but was still waiting to hear about the additional claim but in the light of the
financial situation in which the Counters Business now found itself he was not too
hopeful.

MR BUTLIN had sent a fax requesting a Motion to be put the current Executive
Council Meeting but this had been ruled out of time and he, therefore, gave formal

32 EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING ~ JUNE 1997
NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

notice of a Motion to be put to the meeting in October recommending an adjustment
to the distribution of Union Facilities, the current method being unfair and incorrect.
In this respect he drew attention to Philip Bloor’s letter of 15 October 1996 and he
held up a map of the British Isles on which boundaries of the SWSW Region was
outlined indicating the problem with which that Region was faced.

In reply to a query from Mr Burford as to whether the Federation had tried to linked
Union Facilities with the RPI, THE GENERAL SECRETARY said it had but that
Mr Coleman required a new claim be submitted every year.

=
=
@
@
<
9)
>
on

i

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997 33

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

AIT CONFERENCE RESOLUTIONS PRIOR TO 1997
96/51 Payment days
96/71 Advertising
96/83 Standardisation of Certificates of Insurance and Cover Notes

Nothing reported. I
Al8 CONFERENCE RESOLUTIONS 1997

The circulated list was amended by moving Resolutions 19, 21, 23, 28 & 29 to be I
dealt with by the Negotiating Committee, Resolution 70 as already in hand, and the
list approved.

ANO DEPARTMENTAL CORRESPONDENCE
(A) FORDISCUSSIONS

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD
NETWORK
1. (a) Sub Post Office Signage - Aliflex - PC NW 05 03

oN

THE GENERAL SECRETARY advised Aliflex had reported that although hundreds of
enquiries had been received, there had only be 12 orders which was disappointing. POCL
had licensed more suppliers although they had given Plumb Signs coverage in the Courier.

MR DARVILL drew attention to a reluctance by RNM to support the product and to
the high installation costs of the Plumb Signs in the London area (£450).
THE CHAIRMAN felt some animosity remained because the Post Office product
had fallen through.

(b) Review of Helplines - PC NW 10

MR DAVIS drew attention to the correspondence circulated on 12 June. In reply to a query

regarding SSL, he advised the situation was Counters were re-scoping a number of options

of which SSL were one. John Holroyd had sald that if SSL did not live up to POCL's

requirements it would not carry out the work and SSL will only handle customer enquiries.

Customers would not know of the re-routing. It was a trial of the Helpline facility in one

Region. Helplines were victims of their own success. The further success of the Helpline ¢
depended upon people understanding the problems that Sub-Postmasters met in their

Offices in a working environment. He himself had maintained that the Federation/Sub-

Postmasters would not tolerate any reduction in the standard of service.

QUALITY

2 {a) Customer First - PC QY 01
- Trial for compensating customers who wait longer than 5 minutes
- Customer Satisfaction Index - Surveys

THE GENERAL SECRETARY described the Counters Business as yet to reach a conclusion
and make up their minds, so there was a need to continue, although there were some—-
difficulties between the people doing the surveys.

MR DAVIS drew attention to his circulation of 12 June (circulated under A/10(a) PC NW 10 above).
The information contained therein demonstrated that talking with POCL had been a success
because the Federation had managed to effect a change over time.

34 EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997
SUBPOSTMASTERS CONTRACT
3. (a) Christmas and New Year Arrangements - PC SC 05 01

The correspondence advised of latest position. Tom Coleman had been at Annual
Conference and witnessed the debate on the subject and had since advised the
arrangements had been put to Jonathan Evans for a decision. MR DAVIS was hopeful that
the proposals would be acceptable.

SUBPOSTMASTERS PAY
4. (a) APT Schemes - PC SP 02 08

There was nothing to add to the circulated correspondence.
POCL CLIENTS

BENEFITS AGENCY
5. (a) Review of Form P80MA - CL BA 04

MR DAVIS circulated the original of the form P80MA mentioned in the correspondence.

THE CHAIRMAN’s mentioned that, in his view, it seemed pointless to object to the
Public being advised of a Sub Post Office FAD code, as that knowledge could easily
be gained from various sources.

GIROBANK
6. (a) Girobank PDR’s (Postmasters Daily Records) - CL GB 08

MR DAVIS expressed an interest in hearing the Council's views on the correspondence.

MISS PARCELL saw refusal as an ideal method by which to disrupt POCL in the
hope of securing a swift 1997 pay deal.

Although agreeing in theory, MR ABERNETHY felt Post Office customers/clients
would not agree with that concept. He wished to speed the impetus of automation.
He recommended accepting the course suggested by Mr Davis.

MRS KENDALL foresaw disruption anyway, chaos in Girobank, and she did not
consider the matter had been sufficiently thought through. She wondered whether it
was really POCL which wanted the change, not Girobank.

MR DAVIS explained he wished for an indication of when it was considered
appropriate for the method to start. The scenario described by Mrs Kendall could
happen immediately as, once on EPOS, all transactions could be recorded on the
day they were transacted. He had suggested the change be made on the day an
Office went over to EPOS.

MR ABERNETHY proposed it should wait until EPOS took place, meanwhile sticking

to the current method. THE GENERAL SECRETARY commented that the latest
correspondence only having been recelved that moming, and bearing in mind POCL_-
said it would be introduced before automation, the matter should be taken back to
see what could be done without being restricted by a set mandate. And
MR ABERNETHY withdrew his proposal.

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1907 35

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

PERSONAL BANKING SERVICES
Tv. (a) Personal Banking Trial - Co-operative Bank, Extension Review CL PB

There was nothing to add to the circulated comespondence.

PAYMENT COLLECTION SERVICES
8. (a) Vodaphone Pre-Pay - CL PC 04

Nothing to add to the circulated correspondence.

A/10(B) FOR INFORMATION
(The following was specifically noted)

Commercial
1. (a) Market Research PC CM 02
Network
2. (a) Post Office Stores: Scheduled
Ordering - Transaction Stock - PC NW 04

Irrelevant

36 EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

“~~
NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

¢ THE CHAIRMAN confirmed the agreement of the Council to transfer the (agenda)
matter to the A/3 Agenda. I

(b) Post Office Stock - PC NW 04 01

(d) Counter Automation - BA/POCL - PC NW 06 01
- Research
- Customer Education

(e) The Smart Money - PC NW 06 08

Product Range
3. (a) Postal Orders - PC PR 01
(b) Postshop Retail Products - Sales to Sub-Postmasters - PC PR 05

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997 37

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

1 .

mn

{

POCL CLIENTS
Benefits Agency
4. (a) P&A Order Book Redesign - CL BA 03
(b) Benefits Agency Reward Scheme - CL BA 06

MR DARVILL mentioned what he described as a plague in London of Green
Girocheques being completely manipulated so that it was impossible to detect, but
Sub-Postmasters still being asked to make good the losses.

The Federation had tried repeatedly but, MR DAVIS said, those concerned were not
prepared to take back the design. I

BBC
5. (a) TV Licence Fee Stamps/Saving Stamp - CL BC 03
Girobank
6. (a) Alliance & Leicester - Giro/Post Office Report - CL GB 04 \
i
( I

Irrelevant

Department of National Savings
8. (a) Account Opening - Evidence of Identity - CL NS 07 03

Parcelforce
9. (a) Parcelforce Contract Customers - CL PF 05 05

Royal Mail
10. (a) Mails Markets Liaison Meeting - CL RM 01
(b) “Success through Sales” - CL RM 05

38 EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997
NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

Af11 REPORT ON CENTRAL APPEALS
There were no Reports,

AlM2 GENERAL SECRETARY'S REPORT
WEB SITE ON THE INTERNET

Irrelevant

Irrelevant
Irrelevant I I

Irrelevant

i
I
I
i I

Irrelevant

Discussion on the Future Structure/Strategy of the National Federation
of Sub-Postmasters.

SUB GROUP 1 “COMMUNICATIONS” —

MR CYRIL JONES reported that the Group had meet and spent some 2 hours
analysing progress on the various proposals, considering the role and purpose of
the Communications Sub Group and its terms of reference. He wished to note the
progress made to date:

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997 39

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

4, Production of Factsheets. It was felt the Factsheets already produced were
useful and appreciated. The problem seemed to lay in getting them to Sub-
Postmasters, although they were sent to Branch Secretaries. It was suggested
that a full list of the Factsheets be published in the “Subpostmaster" and in order
to wet the appetite that a précis of individual Factsheets should appear each
month. It was not considered appropriate to print the whole sheet as that would
take up too much space. There could be a small order form applying for the
sheets for readers to send to Federation Headquarters. The Sub Group also
wanted to know what more Factsheets were planned, on what subjects. He
recalled one on electricity for automation having been suggested.

2. The proposed Surgeries by Executive Officers held before/after Branch Meetings
had been discussed. Mr Marshall had held 3 such surgeries in a one-to-one
situation to discuss individual Sub-Postmasters problems. At one of those
meeting 2 Sub-Postmasters had attended, 1 at another meeting, and 0 at the
third but those who sat down were satisfied. Therefore, the idea was considered
worth thinking about and it was recommended to be taken up generally and
Branch Secretaries requested to organise a meeting room facility for half-an-hour
beforehand.

3. On Road Shows, material had been requested from Federation Headquarters
3 times but unfortunately nothing had been heard. The Sub Group would
welcome something which would enlighten them in that area.

4. The most frequently asked questions from Sub-Postmasters concemed progress
with pay and the Sub Group felt it should stress once again that there should be
publications regularly in the “Subpostmaster” regarding what was happening with

the Pay negotiations.

5. On filofaxes, in the light of the current situation it was felt that subject should be
passed back to the P&D. The Group felt the idea could be taken up if it proved
» feasible.

40 EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997
Irrelevant

10.There was a feeling of uncertainty in the Sub Group as to their role.
Communications was an extremely wide area and it was felt that a more specific
term was needed, ie, as to what the purpose of the Group was and what it was
responsible for. Also, that “Operations” needed a more clear definition. It was
felt that some the setting up the Sub Groups had been no more than a mere sop
for those not on major Sub Committees. It seemed to some that not a lot was
happening and they queried the use of the time taken up. He therefore
requested the Council to look at the role of the Sub Groups, ask whether they
served any useful purpose and, if there was, was account going to be taken of
what they said, and weight given to their views? MR JONES concluded his
report by saying he personally thought they were a good thing.

THE GENERAL SECRETARY thanked Mr Jones for having effectively
communicated. He said:

1. The Sub Groups were not a sop. Everybody on the Executive Council was a
member of a Sub Group whether he/she was on another Sub Committee or not.
There was a genuine desire within the Council itself to look at its own operation
and all its functions. Brainstorming had commenced some 2 years previously.
Perhaps it had lost steam. He had taken a conscious decision to stop driving it
and step back as that was good practice by those involved in Business
Excellence, Certainly the Groups did not serve any useful purpose if their
findings were ignored. Communications was the biggest cross-subject concept,
a thread through, and connecting, all other boundaries. He felt sure that ail
Executive Officers who were present at the start of setting up the Sub Groups
would support him in what he had said.

2. On the production of Factsheets, he had an ambition for some years to produce
@ full list of Factsheets covering many subjects. Certainly reference to them
could be tabulated regularly in the “Subpostmaster’, together with an application
form. But, later on, Mr Jones had mentioned that a Sub-Postmaster first line of
communication was his Branch’ Secretaries and he wondered whether the
suggestion would act as a paradox/disincentive to that. Other Factsheets
planned could be on subjects identified as FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions).
Peter Abraham of the DAS Helpline could be a useful information source for...
some Factsheets, Regarding instructions for the supply of electricity for
automation, at the time of the Executive Council's previous discussion of the
subject it was said that Sub-Postmasters were responsible but now it appeared,
that POCL might themselves pay for some modifications, There was a wish to
see what happened in Newcastle and the South West and what that might mean
in the future and, therefore, no Factsheet had been produced.

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997 41

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

(MR MARSHALL was able to confirm that in the South West where the cost
changes to the electricity supply had been £65 POCL and Pathway were arguing
about who should bear the cost, but the Sub-Postmasters had not been asked to

pay.)
3. Surgeries by Executive Officers had already been dealt with.

4. On Road Shows, Mr Heasman would provide the Executive Council
with the information.

5, Publication of communications on Pay presented a difficult balance of priorities.
He passionately believed there was a responsibility to tell members but if, for
instance, the Federation said pay was held up because of a Government review, I
that might be handing POCL exactly what they wanted. In this matter THE I
GENERAL SECRETARY took his instructions from the Executive Council.

6. The query and problem with Membership Cards would be taken back.

Irrelevant

8. As regards the lines of communication being definite and published in
the “Subpostmaster”. The Communications Groups findings

reported to the Executive Council at it last meeting could be

published in the journal, with the Editor permission.

MR CYRIL JONES said that it was not being recommended that there should be
chapter and verse on the pay negotiations published in the “Subpostmaster’, but a
mention to say that something was happening, acknowledging that something was
going on.

Irrelevant

_

Irrelevant

42 EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997
NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

Irrelevant

SUB GROUP 2 “MEMBERSHIP”

MR DAVIS advised that the Group’s spokesman, Mr Doug Evans, was absent.
Executive Officers would have received a report of the progress made at the
meeting of 14th February and a further meeting had taken place. Mr Evans
intended to provide a written report on that meeting to the Sub Group and
subsequently to the Executive Council and that the Group would then decide
whether it required a further meeting.

AlM3 NFSP TRADING LIMITED

MR CHALLINOR (Chairman) briefly reported on matter raised at the Annual General
Meeting. Mr Jones had asked about Paperhouse, unfortunately at that stage he
could not enlighten members on the subject. Mr Evans had raised the matter of
National Stocktaking fees being rather high and this point would be raised with them
at a forthcoming meeting.

Irrelevant

MR CHALLINOR also reported on the secure lending scheme with Girobank started
in September 1996. Up to April 1997 34 loans had been taken out, value £2.365
million. Since April there was an additional figure of over £3 million of loans Sub-
Postmasters had requested so the scheme was successful. Although NFSP
Trading did not receive any direct commission, they had been more than generous
in contributing to the Federation's Centenary Celebrations.

Irrelevant

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997 43

NFSP00000452
NFSP00000452

+ The Report of NFSP Trading was ACCEPTED.
AM14 EXECUTIVE OFFICER'S REPORTS

THE CHAIRMAN drew attention to the draft verbatim Report of Annual Conference
1997 held at Llandudno, recalling criticisms of the standard of the 1996 Report
having been received. He understood that correcting the Report was an onerous
task and asked Executive Officers to read any sections applying to their Regions ¢
and advise Shoreham. :

Irrelevant

AM5 MATTERS RECEIVED TOO LATE FOR INCLUSION ON AGENDA

There were none.
AM6 ANY OTHER BUSINESS
There was none.

MR MCMAHON said that, as the shortest-serving member of the Council, it fell to

him to propose a vote of thanks for the way in which THE CHAIRMAN had

conducted his first Executive Council Meeting as National President - it was his own {
second Executive Council Meeting and, had it been his first, he would have thought
it much more than the Chairman's first because of the way he had carried out that
task. The Chairman had kept Officers in line very well whilst allowing freedom of
speech. He, personally, still found the debate overwhelming and agreed with Mr
Cyril Jones comments (in his report under A/12 Sub Group on “Communications’)
but his colleagues in the North West had indeed been very helpful. He had, too,
been surprised to learn of the GPC Committee's work and now understood the
extent of the Council's custodianship of the Federation. He offered his best wishes
to the Chairman in his year as National President in conducting future meetings.

THE CHAIRMAN thanked him for his kind words, explaining he had been well taught-~
by Mr Burford (last year’s National President) and thanked Officers for their good
humour. He urged the Council to progress the membership drive, and looked
forward to the October Executive Council Meeting.

ELAINE AUSTIN. I i
GILL PAYNE i

44 i G RO ; EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEETING - JUNE 1997

