NFSP00000279
NFSP00000279

PC NW 06 01

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD/PATHWAY/ ~
TIONAL FEDERATION OF SUBPOSTMASTERS

MEETING RE AUTOMATION HELD ON 28 MAY 1997

IN CAMERON HOUSE
ACTION POINTS
ACTION Action By
¢ Processor problems - quick attendance but down time excessive PDA.

(half day)

¢ Need to integrate security into process

+ Surveys - a need to provide kit specifications etc., in advance to
enable Subpostmasters to get heads around change

@ Cable length appears to be too constraining (affects where kit can
be sited)

¢ Idea! - Subpostmaster developed own housing unit (monitor
encased, with printer on top)

¢ Key board location may be an issue when swipe card kicks in
(design?)

¢@ Keyboard design and usability needs considering when looking at
housing unit solutions

¢ Model of kit needs to be more robust and realistic and to
represent space taken up (ie., includes cabling allowance)

¢ Consistency of approach to preparation activity - standards?
+ Review of ‘sign-off processes (liability issues)

¢ Identify primary customers for each of key processes (‘exploded’
process map)

¢ Communication - co-ordinating all data gathered against each
outlet during install process (survey - go live) _"

poclpath.doe 1

NFSP00000279
NFSP00000279

ACTION

¢ Expert support - outlet focused ‘case notes’
Collating information generated by all parties involved
Keeping outlets informed and up to date
Who owns this Communication process?

¢ Robustness of communication network for systems

¢ Subpostmasters not reporting all systems errors - distorting error
rate figures

+ Surveys - need to communicate running order of surveys and
number of ‘gangs’ working each day to enable effective use of
resource ie., RNM - timeliness of information needs improving

+ Training & User Awareness Events - timely and accurate
information re attendance/non attendance

¢ User Awareness Events - consider timing as attendance rates may
be adversely affected eg., double payment days, City Centre
venues (expensive parking), access by public transport essential

°

User Awareness Events & Training - standards set by Peritas seen
to be too high to exclude use of PO facilities

°

Pathway staff have been well received in outlets and during
training. Also attitude of Subpostmasters

+ Health & Safety issues at automated outlets, particularly in one
man outlets eg., ergonomics - left/right hand working , RSI
liability?

Ops first
Liability issues next - POCL-NFSP.

¢# How can NESP Branch network help?
Showing kit?
Briefings
(LM/SJ - PDA/JE - CB)

poclpath.doc 2

NFSP00000279

NFSP00000279
ACTION Action By
+ Review some security policy eg., siting of parcel hatches, speech I -PR/JE
units (space taken up) (PR/JE/CB) f
+ View security options in context of automation - widen our PRE :
options (PR/JE CB)
¢ RNM workloads (general) impacted upon by Horizon , PRE

(CEC JE/PR - RGMs )

°

Talking Shop idea! - article focusing on Subpostmasters who have
been automated - audio tape
(Link with CB) (PR/RD)

¢ Who ‘owns’ a problem and satisfies it for Subpostmaster?
Important to Subpostmaster there is one contact point

¢ Urgent need for guidance of kit specifications, counter layouts to PRE
enable new Subpostmasters/ those who want to modernise outlet :
prior to automation (PR/JE/DG)

¢ Business as usual activity - concerned re managing transfers, JE
relocations etc

¢ Improved information flow eo PR

¢# Mechanism for reviewing (interim PDA measure). Live trial pos JE
needs establishing (RGMs) (CEC/JE) i

¢ Attendance payments for training and User Awareness Events JE?
(CB/AD) P

¢ How can NFSP Branch network help? -
Showing kit? JE
Briefings
(LM/SJ - PDA/JE - CB)

¢ Attendance payments for training and User Awareness Events : “AD i
(CB/TE?) :

poclpath.doc 3

NFSP00000279
NFSP00000279

ACTION

# Preparation - out of hours? (solution?) work carried out in
opening hours, noisy and lots of people involved eg., 6.
Office closure as an option?

¢@ RNM workloads (general) impacted upon by Horizon
(CEC, JE, RGMs, PR)

+ Idea! - Account Manager approach to managing number of outlets
(RNM Group? roll-out group?)

+ Seek information necessary to manage issues - back to issue of
who manages outlets

+ Mechanism for reviewing (interim PDA measure). Live trial
needs establishing (RGMs) (CEC/JE)

+ Review some securily policy eg., siting of parcel hatches, speech
units (space taken up) (PR/JE CB)

# View security options in context of automation - widen our
options (PR/JE CB)

¢ Attendance payments for training and User Awareness Events
(JE?/ AD - CB)

+ How can NFSP Branch network help?
Showing kit?
Briefings
(LM/SJ - PDA/JE - CB)

¢@ RNM workloads (general) impacted upon by Horizon

¢ Mechanism for reviewing (interim PDA measure). Live trial
needs establishing (RGMs)

¢ Systems communications links with Farnborough
eg., stops being enforced or dropped, not being notified to
database quickly enough. Further compounded BA insist on 2nd
class post for books

¢# How can NFSP Branch network help?
Showing kit?
Briefings
(LM/S]J - PDA/JE - CB)

¢ How can NFSP Branch network help?
Showing kit?
Briefings
(LM/SJ - PDA/JE - CB)

SJ

poclpath.doc 4

NFSP00000279
NFSP00000279

ACTION

¢ Urgent need for guidance of kit specifications, counter layouts to
enable new Subpostmasters/those who want to modernise outlet
prior to automation (PR/JE/DG)

GENERAL
¢ PR to brief PDA & POCL operational people
+ JBMcN/DC to meet with ICL (Barry Davies)

ID KEY

PR Paul Rich

JE Jonathan Evans

CEC Counters Executive Committee
DG Don Grey

CB Colin Baker

LM Liz Moran

SJ Sarah Juggins

PDA Programme Delivery Authority
RGMs Regional General Managers
RD Rob Durrant

AD Alex Docherty

JB John Bennett

PC Peter Crahn

poclpath.doc 5

