POL00099354
POL00099354

Message
From:

on behalf of
Sent:

To:

Susan
“Alwen Lyons

cc:
Subject: Notes of the meeting on the 22nd July

}Paula Vennells I

Dear All

Notes of the meeting held on 22nd July at Old Street to discuss the proposed mediation process
Attending: PV, JA, RW, IH, SC, MD, AL

vvvy

PV welcomed all to the meeting, want to work collaboratively, respond to learnings and put a process in
place to move the cases forward
>

> POL has already committed to

> Creating a working party To work collaboratively to complete the review of cases started by second
sight last year.

> A reviewed chaired by an independent figure to mediate in disputed cases.

A branch user forum to provide a way for subpostmasters and others to raise issues and I sights

We accept that there needs to be a satisfactory process going forward

The meeting discussed the proposed process - SEE FLOW CHART

vvvvvy

> JA considered it a good way forward and said that this was very close to the process suggested by Alan
Bates a week ago.

> The process had been sent to AB for comments and he had emailed his input to AL.

> SC that this was a process which would enable the sub postmaster to put their case to POL and to get
resolutions. POL would also use the information to inform changes in business processes. It was hoped
that this would give sub postmasters the opportunities to raise issues with POL using a new process in
the future which would hopefully reduce the need for new cases.

>
> JA pointed out that the 47 cases currently being considered were not the only cases, this was accepted
but it was agreed that if we put these cases through the process this would prove it worked and then it
would provide a route for the other MP cases.

> 3A said he had had a lot of new cases since the statement in the house.

> The Monthly Oversight Board would stay in existence initially for 12 months and the hope was this would
be enough time to see the cases through IH agreed that the process would bring the ‘sides’ together.
Mediator would help. Good will on both side would give it a chance.

> JA had expected POL to suggest the review needed to be finished by the end of October and would not
have been pleased if it had, but he was pleased with the proposal IH was also pleased and said the spot
review approach worked well with this approach.

>

> It was suggested that a workshop be held on wed or Thurs to flesh out the approach.

> JA asked the workshop to consider the precise steps which need to be taken for each different type of
case. It was agreed that an email would be sent to JA for onward transmission to MPs (agreed with ss)
which would explain what will happen with MP cases.

>

> JA explained that the MPs had taken up the cases because their constituents could not see any other
way to get satisfaction, JA accepted that not all cases would be resolved to the satisfaction of the
constituents but that the process did provide an independent mediations. .

> IH said that any case submitted needed a level of detail before it could be investigated and some MP
cases did not have she required level of detail.

>
> JA needed to go back to the MPs and tell them which cases did not have enough detail. SS to provide an
email setting out what is required based on the JFSA standard of evidence.

>
> SC explained that the process made provision for the SPMR to have an independent advisor, she made the
point about costs in the context of this and the process in general and said that they should be
proportionate and would need to be controlled, she expected it to be the role of the MOB to oversee
value for money in the context.

>
> JA said that we needed to consider the consequences if cases get over turned. RW pointed out that the

‘independent advisor for sub postmasters was very important as some of the SPMRs found it difficult to
explain their case
>

POL-0098937
POL00099354
POL00099354

> IH it will not take long to push some of the cases through, made sense to put those with tangible
evidence to the front of the queue, but also ensure that the cases of MPs who have attended the meetings
are given priority.

>
> The workshop this week would look at different ways of working, then there would be an ongoing working
group, working through cases and meeting formally once a week to sort out any issues.

>
> Getting the information from Fujitsu had been an issue in the past. PV asked for evidence of this so
that the business could challenge FJ.

JA offered to intervene with the FJ Chairman, Simon Blagdon, if it would be helpful.

IH said the business needed their commitment to process and speed of getting data.
It was thought that Gareth Jenkins produced high quality and he may be able to help the process.

vvvvvyvy

IH to provide JA with the email to call in the evidence, the lack of evidence would be a problem and
we would have to filter out cases where IT wasn't possible to take them forward.

> SS would look at each case individually to see if the evidence available enabled it to proceed

>
> SC explained that this process would not stop SPMRs taking a civil case against the Po if they thought
that was appropriate, but that would take them outside of the mediation process.

>
> > AL would call AB tomorrow morning and invite him or Kay Linnell to attend the workshop if possible
> > consider if it would be good to put out a joint POL/ JFSA communication about the mediation process.
Once the process is in place need to contact each SPMR to ask them if they want. To put their case
through mediation.

>

> ACTIONS In the meeting

work shop the mediation proposal on the 24th July with SS, JFSA and POL

>
> After the workshop, POL/SS/JFSA provide an email for JA to send to MPs to explain the process ( the
email needs to be able to quoted or used in correspondence with their constituents )

>

> SS to provide a list of MP cases which do not have enough evidence and an email for JA to send to MPs
concerned explaining what evidence is required, using the JFSP standard

>
> Provide an email for JA which is an amalgamation of the two above for use with new cases, explaining
the process.

>

Thanks
Alwen

Alwen Lyons
Secretary

vyvvvvvy

POL-0098937
