POL00445451
POL00445451

IT Directorate @

IMPACT Programme Board —
No. 17

Minutes

Minutes of IMPACT Programme Board Meeting held on 05 April

2005
Attendees
Name Initial I Role Comment
s s
Peter Corbett I PC Finance Director
Sue Harding SH Programme Manager
Wendy Dove WD PSO
Dave Smith DXS Delivery Director, POL
Kier Wingrove I SC Project Team For Simon
Carter
George Hooper I GH Sales
Vicky Noble VN Head of Client Accounting &
Cash Mgt
Ric Francis RF Operations Director
Ruth Holleran I RH Operations
Lynn Hobbs LH General Manager Service
Rob Durrant RD Headcount Programme Director _I Apologies
Simon Carter I SC Head of Marketing Apologies
1 Minutes from Previous Meeting
The minutes from the previous meeting were agreed.
2 Actions from Previous Meeting/Current meeting
No. I Owne Action Status/Progress I Date req.
r
Actions from 07/09/04
10.03 I SG _ I To plan for e Now that ‘back I 08/03/05
communication of end launch has_ I 05/04/05.
successful release of taken place 10/05/04
R1 of IMPACT and communication
Ref: \[ FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT } Page 1 of 5

POL-BSFF-096-0007378
POL00445451

POL00445451
IT Directorate @
IMPACT Programme Board —
No. 17
Minutes
realisation of benefits being drafted
(Good news Awaiting
communication). benefits
realization —
C/fwd
08/03/05 -
C/Fwd
05/04/05 -
C/Fwd
Actions from 09/11/04
011.07 I SH _ I Consider adding new Group Audit are I 08/03/05
milestones into the working on the I 95/04/05
plan around programme & I 10/05/04.
Implementation and looking at 3 key
Group Audit areas including
Assurance POLFS —- when
dates known for
go live audit, to
include in the
plan asa
milestone —
c/fwd
08/03/05 —
C/Fwd
05/04/05 - C/F
Sue to talk to
Steve Webb
Actions from 08/02/05
014.03 I SH _ ITo ensure all 08/03/05 Work I 08/03/05
scenarios are worked in progress — 05/04/05
up and any risks are C/Fward 10/05/05
identified and 05/04/03 - C/F
managed for non
conformance
014.04 I SH _ I Draw up alist of 08/03/05 Work I 98/03/05
Ref: \[ FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT } Page 2 of 5

POL-BSFF-096-0007378_0001
POL00445451
POL00445451

IT Directorate

IMPACT Programme Board —

No. 17
Minutes

CSF’s to ensure we
get to where we want
to be including any
indicators of what
areas are likely to be
sensitive

in progress —
C/Fward

© 05/04/05 -
C/Fwd

05/04/05
10/05/04

15.02

DXS

Dave to brief
Graham Halliday on
Alliance and
Leicester Issue with
a view to engaging
A+L experts (need
names of experts)
Dave/Graham to
map out timetable of
what needs to
happen.

e New

¢ 05/04/05 -—
Alliance and
Leicester
Meeting
scheduled for
next week

05/04/05
10/05/05

Actions

from POLFS re-planning session 21 March 2005

16.02

SH

Identify
milestones/drop
dead decision points
between now and
end of Programme

° C’fwd
© 05/05/05 -
C/Fwd

08/04/08
10/05/05

New actions from 5° March 05

17.01

DXM

Dave to speak to
Graham Halliday re.
Release
Authorisation Board
(does Graham’s area
need to be
involved?).

e New

10/05/05

Points to note

Ref: I FILENAME \" MERGEFORMAT I

Page 3of5

POL-BSFF-096-0007378_0002
POL00445451
POL00445451

IT Directorate @

IMPACT Programme Board —
No. 17
Minutes

$60 Auto REM — The Programme Board approved the solution for
correcting the S60 Auto Rem — Suspense Account Line 5037 (Stuck
Rem solution - development and implementation). It was agreed that
implementation should commence now to ensure the solution could be
implemented, actioned and withdrawn without causing problems with
$80 roll out.

Total cost (including solution development) £29.5K

Timescales 12 weeks

Change Requests - The Board agreed that unless business critical, no
further changes are to be raised against S80.

Overall status of the project — The Board discussed and agreed that
the overall status of the project is Green. The official position is that the
Programme will be brought in on time and to budget. In summary, it was
agreed that the programme is reporting:

Overall: Green

Time: Amber — on track with issues on time under
management

Cost: Green

Quality: Green

Communication: The Board agreed that a formal communication to the
public domain should be issued. This should not be communicated until
a solution to the A+L issue is progressed (A+L meeting planned for next
week).

Release Authoritsation - Dave talked the Board through the attached
presentation/handout on Release Authoritsation:

A) &

relauthIMPACT.ppt "CAA Go Live.doc”

Ref: I FILENAME \" MERGEFORMAT I Page 4 of 5

POL-BSFF-096-0007378_0003
POL00445451
POL00445451

IT Directorate @

IMPACT Programme Board —
No. 17
Minutes

Financial Assurance - Vicky talked the Board the through the attached
presentation on Financial Assurance.

=

"Presentationimpact
assurance. ppt"

Next IMPACT Programme Board Meetings:

10! May — 11.30-12.30, Room=="I 80 Old Street

Ref: I FILENAME \" MERGEFORMAT I Page 5 of 5

POL-BSFF-096-0007378_0004
