POL00028322

POL00028322

IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE

ES AUTOMATION TRANSFORMATION

PROGRAMME

Automation Transformation Steering Group
Notes of meeting on 28 September 1998

Present

Apologies

Distribution

Next meeting is 2.00 pm, 20 October in Second floor Board Room, KEB.

Paul Rich (chair)

Rob Durrant

Mike Hellier (for Dave Morphey)
John Main

John Meagher (for Dave Miller)
Wendy Powney

David Smith

Stuart Sweetman

Roger Tabor

Elena Marsh (Notes)

Duncan Hine
Dave Miller
Dave Morphey
Mena Rego
Paul Thornton

as per CEC circulation list

» APG

AWG

1

POL00028322
POL00028322

IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE

Actions
Item 1 Actions from last meeting

See updated action points

Item 2 Red Light issues

21
Concern was raised over the possibility that the Shaping for
Competitive Success Programme (SCS) may affect the S3 project
timescales. Group IS strategy have advised that S3 work should not
proceed at this stage The S3 project is due to select a consulting
partner in the next few days and the timescales are such that work
needs to commence in November to enable delivery according to the
overall automation programme requirements. As the timescales for a
definitive decision from the SCS are uncertain awaiting for a decision
before proceeding with current planned work on the S3 will
compromise programme timescales.

2.2 It was agreed that the Conceptual Design for S3 should be done for
two scenarios, one where the SAPHR, SAPADS and MICA SAP
systems would be integrated into one client, and one where SAPADS

. and MICA SAP would be integrated into one client with SAPHR
remaining on a separate instance to enable possible links with Group.
A decision on the way forward would need to be taken prior to the
build stage which is due to commence in March 99.
Transfer to issue log.

Item 3 Other issues

3.1 Data Management
Roger Tabor raised a concern about the business’s commitment to
support the Data Management project and the support for the
introduction of processes for date ownership and maintenance. It was
noted that the CEC needs to be seen to be committed to the Data
Management project and that Rob Durrant would chair the Data
Management board. It was noted that any big change management
initiatives with data implications should link into the Data
Management project.

3.2
It was noted that there is a need for wider business capability planning
exercise that is dynamic and regularly updated to enable the business
to sustain the pace of transformation. The Gateway process may be
one way that this is done and the CEC will consider this under the
Gateway agenda item at a CEC meeting.
Action It was agreed that :
¢ Rob Durrant should take this forward with the Gateway process R Durrant
Action ¢ Areview of the minimum commercial requirements is required to TMT
feed into the capability planning exercise
Action e Acapability impact assessment on the programme plan is required TMT

POL00028322
POL00028322

3.3

Item 4
4.1

Action

Action

4.2

Item 5
5.1

Action

Item 6
6.1

Action

6.2

IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE

A verbal update was given on this item which is on the existing issue I
log.

It was noted that MORI has been completed and MOR2 is ongoing.

It was noted that there may be an additional testing phase prior to live
trial , this may be able to be managed within the existing contingency.

Business Standards

Rob Durrant gave a presentation on his proposals for the production of
business standards. The production of business standards will be
taken forward by a project team , a profile for which has been
forwarded to business planning. Once the profile is agreed with CEC
standard owners will be targeted to produce standards. All business
standards and supporting documentation will be produced in the same
format and will be used for checking compliance, CICS and as a basis
for BER.

The way reserved powers fit in with this conformist model of working
should be considered by the CEC.

The standards will be applicable to both Business Units and

programmes.

Requirements specification

At the May meeting the ATSG agreed that the End to End work

should be developed into a requirements specification and a target of

the end of October was set for completion.

The ATSG agreed :

revised objectives for the work

© complete the back end requirements but remit to the migration
planning group for the detail work

AOB
Cli Saath

The content of any client communication must be considered
carefully. Clients should not be given any dates that are not definite as
that would serve to further increase their scepticism about the
programme. Currently we are only confident about the dates for
release 2 Timescales will become firmer in December.

It was agreed that Dave Morphey, Paul Rich and Stuart Sweetman ,
should meet to agree the content of the client communication.

It was agreed that the ATSG will remain with its present composition
and scope for the October meeting but would move to a Hamessing
Technology programme board from November.

Actions

R Durrant

R Durrant

D Smith

P Rich
D Morphey
S Sweetman

POL00028322
POL00028322

To: Horizon Programme Staff

From: Dave Miller Date: 9k October 1998
Horizon Programme Director

Subject: Horizon re-organisation

T announced at the Open Forum on 24' August, that we would be
undertaking a review of the Programme structure. I also said that I expected
to be able to communicate the outcome of that review by mid September,
ready to implement the changes from the beginning of October.

You'll be aware that where possible I have already communicated changes,
but there are still some areas we are working on. I’m sure you'll appreciate
that there are also external issues which may impact on the eventual outcome,
and I need to take account of these before finalising the review.

So, I'm sorry that I’m not able to announce the details of the new structure
yet, but I should be in’a position to do so within the next month.

Yours sincerely

Dave Miller

