POL00423536
POL00423536

POST OFFICE LIMITED

MINUTES OF A MEETING OF THE RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF POST OFFICE
LIMITED HELD ON THURSDAY 12 JANUARY 2021 AT 10:00 VIA MICROSOFT TEAMS

Present: Attendees:

Alisdair Cameron (Chairman) (AC) Rob Wilkins (Cloud Services Director) (RWI): Item 3.4 & 4

Lisa Cherry (Group Chief People Officer) (LC) Tony Jowett (Chief Information Security Officer) (TJ): Items
4a5

Ben Foat (Group General Counsel) (BF) Russell Hancock (Supply Chain Director) (RH): Item 6

Amanda Jones (Group Retail and Franchise Network Director) I Sally Smith (Money Laundering Reporting Officer & Head of

(AJ) Financial Crime) (SS): Item 7

Cathy Mayor (Finance Director, Commercial) (CM) Maxine Cross (Head of Reward and Pensions): (MC): Item
8

Jeff Smyth (Group Chief Information Officer) (JS) Helen Rhodes (Head of HR Organisation Effectiveness,
Project Lead) (HR): Item 8

Regular Attendees: I Andy Jamieson (Head of Tax) (AJ): Item 9

Johann Appel (Head of Internal Audit) (JA) Tim Perkins (Service and Support Optimisation Director)
(TP): Items 10, 11 & 12

Mark Baldock (Head of Risk) (MB) Declan Salter (GLO Director) (DS): Item 13

Jonathan Hill (Compliance Director) (JH) Graham Hemingway (Historical Matters Portfolio Lead)

_ (GH): Item 13

Tom Lee (Financial Controller) (TL) Barbara Brannon (Procurement Director) (BB): Item 16

Rebecca Whibley (Senior Assistant Company Secretary) Sarah Gray (Group Legal Director) (SG): Item 17

(RW)

Apologies:

N/A = _

1. Welcome and Conflicts of Interest Action

The Chair opened the meeting and advised that all papers would be taken as read.
No conflicts of interest were declared.

2. Minutes and Action Lists

2.1 The minutes of the Committee meeting held on 12 November 2020 were
APPROVED.

2.2 Progress on completion of actions as shown on the action log was NOTED as follows:

Action 1 from 12 November 2020 para 3.1 Risk, Compliance & Internal Audit Update
- Risk Dashboard: These changes have not been made for January 2021 due to the
Risk Team having moved off the RSA Archer system and are now building ServiceNow
(IRM Pro) system. As such it was difficult to run Dashboards. The reporting in the
new ServiceNow system would be built to take account of this action where possible.
The action remained open.

Action 2 from 12 November 2020 para 3.1 Risk, Compliance & Internal Audit Update
- Risk Policy: These changes were made and the policy was approved by the Audit,
Risk & Compliance Committee (ARC) at its meeting in November 2020 and then the
Board in January 2021. The action was closed.

Action 3 from 12 November 2020 para 3.3 Risk, Compliance & Internal Audit Update
= Compliance Update (Anti-Bribery & Corruption Training): Current HR figure stands

Strictly Confidential Page 1 of 15

POL-BSFF-0238351
POL00423536
POL00423536

at 92.4%, which includes contractors. Work was being undertaken to ensure
contractors complete the training. The action was closed.

Action 4 from 12 November 2020 para 3.3 Risk, Compliance & Internal Audit Update
= Compliance Update (Access to Cash): The submitted version was sent by Martin
Kearsley to the GE on Thursday 26th November 2020. The action was closed.

Action 5 from 12 November 2020 para 3.4 Risk, Compliance & Internal Audit Update
= Internal Audit (Effectiveness of the Second Line): A update on this work was
contained within the Compliance Paper (see paragraph 3.3 below). A further update
will be provided when further work has been undertaken. The action remained open.

Action 6 from 12 November 2020 para 3.4 Risk, Compliance & Internal Audit Update
- Internal Audit (Joiners, Movers, Leavers): IT have worked through the leavers and
work was continuing on the movers. This work would be completed prior to the
January 2021 ARC meeting. The action remained open. The Committee also
requested that a list of what is required to be put together and for this to be tracked
against for the next Committee meeting.

Action 7 from 12 November 2020 para 3.4 Risk, Compliance & Internal Audit Update
- Internal Audit (Actions): These changes were made to the report which was
submitted to the ARC for its meeting in November 2020. A separate paper on the
data privacy action was provided to the ARC for noting and it was agreed by the ARC
that the management action would be revised in line with the solution that was
presented to the ARC. The action due date will be re-set to 31 March 2021. The action
was closed.

Action 8 from 12 November 2020 para 3.4 Risk, Compliance & Internal Audit Update
= Internal Audit (Special Investigation): A verbal briefing was provided in confidence
to Al Cameron on 19 November. The action was closed.

Action 9 from 12 November 2020 para 3.4 Risk, Compliance & Internal Audit Update
= Internal Audit (Deletion of Data): Ben and Jeff have met to discuss the rules
regarding data preservation in “legal-hold” situations and we have confirmed that
there is no automatic deletion of any Outlook Email, SharePoint or OneDrive based
data. Data access was deactivated in employee leaver situations but that data was
still retrieval on request by line management or other authorised requestors. Data
Protection have recommended that to keep within Post Office risk appetite that IT,
in conjunction with Compliance, need to start working towards an initial purge of the
emails systems and the implementation of an auto delete solution when the Legal
Hold is removed. The action remained open. The Committee also requested that a
clear plan of action was developed for the next Committee meeting.

Action 10 from 12 November 2020 para 4.2 Cyber Security (Phishing Training): This
will be provided to all GE members ahead of ARC paper submission on 18 January
2021. The action remained open. Committee commented that this list should be
provided asap and that there should not be a reluctance to call people out when they
have not completed mandatory training.

Action 11 from 12 November 2020 para 4.2 Cyber Security (Phishing Comms): This
was highlighted to the Leadership Group and mentioned in a 10@10. The action was
closed.

Action 12 from 12 November 2020 para 4.2 Cyber Security (ARC Paper Update): This
was included in the paper for the ARC in November 2020. This action was closed.

TJ

BF/JH

Strictly Confidential Page 2 of 15

POL-BSFF-0238351_0001
POL00423536
POL00423536

Action 13 from 12 November 2020 para 4.2 Cyber Security (Culture Shift): Initial
meeting has been held with Juliet Lang in People team and plans are in development.
An update will be provided at the March Committee meeting. The action remained
open.

Action 14 from 12 November 2020 para 4.3 Joiners, Movers, Leavers: This was
included in the paper for the ARC in November 2020. The action was closed.

Action 15 from 12 November 2020 para 4.4 Belfast Data Center (Horizon) Disaster
Recovery Post Test Briefing: This item is targeted to be presented to the GE for a
decision on 20 January 2021. The action remained open.

Action 16 from 12 November 2020 para 5 Suspense Accounts: The ARC was asked
to approve disclosure and felt it necessary to refer to the Board. This was therefore
discussed and approved by the Board in November 2020. The action was closed.

Action 17 from 12 November 2020 para 6 Notification of Transaction Error: Since the
last RCC, Post Office has completed a Request to Quote (RTQ) process and raised a
Purchase Order for work to be completed to prevent duplicate auto transaction
corrections from being issued in the future. This work would also include a non-
related enhancement that will prevent any transaction correction narrative from
being cut off after 500 characters. These enhancements would cost £9,860 and were
due for completion by 19 March 2021. The action remained open.

Action 18 from 12 November 2020 para 8 Agreed Upon Procedures: This change was
made to the paper which was submitted to the November 2020 ARC. The action was
closed.

Action 19 from 12 November 2020 para 9 Historical Matters Unit (HMU) Governance
Review: This change was made to the paper which was submitted to the November
2020 ARC. The action was closed.

Action 20 from 12 November 2020 para 11 Terms of Reference: These were
approved at the December GE meeting and were available on the intranet and in the
Diligent Reading Room. The action was closed.

Action 21 from 12 November 2020 para 12 Deepdive: Multiple partner financial
stability update: Commercial Partners were faced with the same challenges of all
retailers in this current climate, however, there were no significant concerns.
Reduction in trading hours were being discussed with some Commercial Partners but
none fall below the minimum/core trading hours. From the 1st January, WHSmith
have reduced to core trading hours in 102 of their Post Offices (Monday to Friday
9am to 5:30pm; Saturday 9am to 12:30pm; Sunday closed) to ensure commercial
viability, and a PO service offering. Increased hours would be reviewed in line with
customer demand. In regard to resignations, CJ Lang (SPAR retailer) resigned on 28
of their Post Office branches during July/August last year, all but 4 of these would be
closed this financial year. This was not driven by COVID-19, but the non-commercial
viability of the PO in these sites. The retail continues to trade, and the PO would be
replaced by a Food to Go offering. WHSmith have resigned on 10 of their Post Office
branches, which has been driven by commercial terms not reaching agreement
between WHSmith and their Landlord. Where commercial terms were agreed,
WHSmith will renege on the Post Office termination. If no terms agreed, both the
WHS retail and Post Office would close. Out of the 10 pending terminations five will
close in Q4 (this financial year); three in Q1; one in Q3 and one in Q4 2022. With

Strictly Confidential Page 3 of 15

POL-BSFF-0238351_0002
POL00423536
POL00423536

regard to the specific recourse for the closing branches, it has been confirmed that
there is recourse for Post Office and this being worked through with Legal. The action
was closed.

Action 22 from 12 November 2020 para 16 Data Governance (Data Storage
Contracts): Procurement have advised that the only providers are Box-It/Oasis &
Postal Museum. The action was closed.

Action 23 from 12 November 2020 para 16 Data Governance (Data Search): The
action was set out in the Data paper that was noted by the ARC in November 2020
and was being actioned. An update was provided in the Compliance paper (see
paragraph 3.3). The action was closed.

Action 24 from 12 November 2020 para 16 Data Governance (Data Retention Policy
Implementation): This was addressed in the Compliance paper (see paragraph 3.3).
Progress was being made and the primary focus was to provide information as
required for Group Litigation Order (GLO) disclosures on 5 February 2021 (deadline
date for disclosure for the 41 past convictions referred for appeal by the CCRC to the
Court of Appeal (Criminal Division)). A further update would be provided at the March
Committee meeting. The action remained open.

Action 25 from 12 November 2020 para 17 Procurement Governance & Compliance
Report: This paper was prepared for the ARC and was shared offline with Lisa
Harrington (only member of the Board who does not attend ARC meetings). The
action was closed.

Action 26 from 10 September 2020 para 4 Pensions Assurance: The Trustee has now
received reconstructed pensionable pay and allowances data. This was being
reviewed to assess both the differences to the 2017 data that formed the basis of
the Rothesay buy-in and the quantum of the overpayments. A report was expected
to be presented to the Trustee Board in March 2021 along with the Trustee
rectification plans. The regulator has been updated and is expecting more information
from POL at the end of the March. The action remained open.

Action 27 from 13 July 2020 para 3.5 Compliance Report (Fairness): The Committee
requested that this action remained open until such time that the sale of the business
had been completed. The action therefore remained open.

Action 28 from 13 July 2020 para 10.6 Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO)
Report: The HMRC supervisor who took over when the previous supervisor retired in
May 2020 moved to a new role in the summer. A further supervisor was appointed
in August 2020 and an initial virtual meeting has been held, but due to continuing
COVID-19 restrictions, HMRC were not undertaking any supervisory visits or
meetings, and it was unclear when this will recommence in 2021 or what the
frequency or format of meetings will be with this new supervisor. The Committee
requested that this action remained open, noting that there was also a requirement
in the action to talk to retail on enforcing the three lines of defence and this needed
to be done. The action therefore remained open.

Action 29 from 11 November 2019 3.2 Supplier Contracts out of Governance (SSK):
Commercial and legal negotiations were ongoing but were on track to complete a
compliant support renewal of the legacy SSK estate by end of January. The action
remained open.

Strictly Confidential Page 4 of 15

POL-BSFF-0238351_0003
POL00423536
POL00423536

Action 30 from 11 November 2019 3.2 Supplier Contracts out of Governance

Brands/RAPP): A compliant tender process has been run and the contract has been
awarded to the incumbent provider, with operational costs reduced. The contract has
been signed and is available on Web3. The action was closed.

Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

Risk

3.1

Mark Baldock introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. The following points were highlighted:

- The report was an interim report as the team were presently moving from
Archer to ServiceNow. The March Report would therefore have data from
ServiceNow which was due to go live on 18 January 2021 and would be rolled
out to the business in March/April (subject to the business case approval).

- The paper gives helicopter review of big risk groups, alongside narrative round
each risk

- The paper also sought approval for the differentiation of risk reporting to the
Board and the ARC. The proposal was that the Board would oversee enterprise
risks with ARC focussing on policy compliance, trends and three lines of
defence. This was discussed and it was agreed that the approach should more
be about the nature of the risk concerned. ARC should deal with any risks
relating to audit, controls or compliance. The Board should oversee risks
relating to the commercial side of the business, including where regulatory
changes might affect this. In the first instance this should be addressed at GE
and then the Board if necessary.

- It was requested that the report be updated to reflect the change in risk profile
due to the signing of Master Distribution Agreement 2 (MDA2) with Royal Mail
before it was submitted to the ARC.

- Work was being undertaken to review the risks given the new purpose and
the business was being challenged to explain the impact of each risk on
Postmasters. It was also requested that a risk should be added about whether
the business was doing enough on day-to-day support for Postmasters to
ensure a network was sustained (for the March 2021 meeting).

- Cathy Mayor questioned how the business could be encouraged to think about
risks more regularly and proactively. Mark Baldock explained that this was
phase two of his work and there would be a carrot and stick approach. The
approach was to be presented to the Committee and the ARC in March 2021.
The Chair noted that the Group Executive (GE) should also discuss this once
a quarter.

- Jeff Smyth also noted that there needed to be a specific risk around the Telco
sale and behavioural changes this had caused for BAU. It was agreed Jeff and
Mark Baldock would discuss this further for update a the March 2021 meeting.

Accordingly, the Committee:
i. NOTED the current status of key risks and Governance, Risk & Compliance
(GRC) tool implementation; and
ii. APPROVED an approach to the role of the Board and the RCC/ARC with
respect to oversight of risk management that was issue based whereby:
- the ARC would oversee risks relating to audit, controls or compliance;
and
- the Board would deal commercial risks;
for onward submission to the ARC.

MB/JS

Risk Appetite Statement: Legal & Compliance

3.2

Ben Foat introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was taken
as read, noting it was about the Risk Appetite for legal and regulatory risks, not risks
for the Legal, Compliance and Governance directorate. The following points were
discussed:

Strictly Confidential Page 5 of 15

POL-BSFF-0238351_0004
POL00423536
POL00423536

- Appendix A to the paper (setting out ARC approved Risk Appetite Scale) was
conservative view of risk appetite and as such, the ARC would be asked to
confirm it is content with this approach at its meeting on 26 January 2021.

- The paper was still a work in progress to be finalised before submission to the
ARC and it would also be submitted to the Chair prior to the ARC, as per her
request.

- The process to prepare the paper had been intensive and the Chair questioned
how useful the document was for making decisions, given the effort involved.
It was explained that it would not give an answer to each and every decision
but it would provide a benchmark for decision-making. Jeff Smyth noted that
the outcome needed to be real and actionable, modulated against how much
recourse and investment was available to manage the risks identified. Ben
Foat also highlighted that it must remain up-to-date and as such should be
reviewed regularly to remain useful.

- Lisa Cherry raised the People risks mentioned in the paper, specifically
relating to Modern Slavery and payment of the minimum wage. The appetite
was adverse to Modern Slavery (for example), but there was concern that this
implied controls would be put in place which would require investment.
However, the approach was more monitoring and as such there seemed to be
a misalignment between the appetite and the action to be taken. Ben Foat
explained that the position was that Post Office was adverse and, as there
were criminal sanctions for Modern Slavery, controls needed to be put in
place. The risk appetite discussion was useful in that it helped to draw out
these issues. The Modern Slavery Statement was normally addressed in the
autumn (which was too late to address the controls requirement) and as such,
this should be addressed in the Risk Appetite Paper.

Accordingly, the Committee APPROVED the draft corporate Legal & Compliance Risk
Appetite Statements (subject to the points raised in its discussions) for onward
submission to the ARC.

BF

Compliance

3.3

Jonathan Hill introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. The following points were discussed:

Controls Framework: The Chair and Ben Foat raised concerned about the lack of
progress in this area and that there did not appear to be a coherent, funded
programme. It needed to be on the prioritised Change list for next financial year and
it was agreed the Chair, Ben Foat and Jonathan Hill would discuss further how the
Framework would work for update at the next Committee meeting. The Chair stated
that the Framework needed to be based on self-assessment by the Control owners.
Jonathan Hill confirmed that this is the principle of the Framework, with assurance
being provided by Compliance.

Jonathan Hill explained:

- That he has agreed with Tim Perkins and the new HMU Operations Director
to accelerate the controls work with operations for completion in early
February, pending the HMU’s deep dive on process maps.

- HMU was looking at what activities have been done to address individual
points raised in the Common Issues Judgment (CIJ) and Horizon Issues
Judgment (HIJ) and the Stamps work.

- Process maps were also being built by the HMU team, but this took
considerable time. building process maps.

- Compliance was responsible for checking with business owners what controls
were in place and ensuring that there was the right reporting/management

AC/BF/JH

Strictly Confidential Page 6 of 15

POL-BSFF-0238351_0005
POL00423536
POL00423536

information (MI). The Controls Framework includes a guidance document to
support business owners.
The Chair requested that this work be fed into the Deloitte programme and requested
that Jonathan Hill link in with the Chair, Ben Foat, Tom Lee and Johann Appel (for
update at the next Committee meeting), asking the controls project should
useServiceNow.

Jeff Smyth also noted that IT were engaging with Procurement on sourcing support
to enhance the IT controls infrastructure. It was agreed that there would be a
collective decision on any support partner and Jonathan Hill was asked to discuss this
with Jeff Smyth for update at the next Committee meeting.

Data Management: The Chair highlighted the request to approve the
recommendation to establish a Post Office-wide Data Governance framework and
SteerCo, based on the Digital Data Governance framework but extended to
encompass all forms of data. It was agreed that this was a matter for the GE and
that a paper should be presented that sets out the purpose and how this could work
(including the wider implications of the Framework, the cost and the accountabilities).

Cookies: The Chair highlighted the request to approve the recommendation to assess
the impact on Post Office’s approach to cookies of new European regulatory rulings
against Google and Amazon. Jonathan Hill explained that the suggestion was that
the Digital and Compliance teams work together to consider the commercial
implications of the rulings. It was agreed that this should be done, but that it was a
commercial decision for Owen Woodley (Group Chief Commercial Officer) and, if
necessary, the GE.

Financial Services: Jonathan Hill was requested to provide the final report relating to
Multi Principal Review of 1* line controls to the Committee before the next Committee
meeting.

Jonathan Hill was also asked to add deadlines to the agreed way forward for
continuing with mystery shopping before the next Committee meeting.

Accordingly the Committee NOTED the Compliance update, in particular:
. The Controls Framework update;
. The Data Management activities;
. Post Office’s approach to cookies;

and;

APPROVED the recommendation for the Digital and Compliance teams to assess the
impact on Post Office’s approach to cookies of new European regulatory rulings
against Google and Amazon and that any decision on a change in approach was for
Owen Woodley (Group Chief Commercial Officer) and, if necessary, the GE.

JH

3H

JH

JH

Internal Audit

3.4

Johann Appel introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. The following points were discussed:

IT Control Framework: The five P2 audit actions were driven by absence of single
individual and this has been mitigated by taking away the key person dependency.

Mails and Parcels: The Chair raised a concern that it did not seem that someone was
taking responsibility for these actions. Johann Appel explained that the actions were
being discussed with Mark Siviter (Product Portfolio Director - Mails, PUDO, Retail

Strictly Confidential Page 7 of 15

POL-BSFF-0238351_0006
POL00423536
POL00423536

and Branch Identity Services) to try and make more specific. Johann Appel was
asked to address this before the ARC or amend his paper to note that this report was
not supported by the Committee.

Historic Matters - CI) Operations Improvement Programme (Interim Report): Johann
Appel explained that the actions arising from this report were due to be completed
by the end of February and if they were to go beyond this date, there needed to be
a good reason and a clear timetable for completion. It was also noted that there were
actually only two P1 actions outstanding and Johann Appel was asked to update the
report with the latest action numbers and management comments before the January
ARC meeting.

In response to a questions from Ben Foat, Johann Appel confirmed that audit was
also tracking the completion of the HMU actions, including the RACI model and it was
highlighted that this needed to be within the next couple of weeks and not wait until
March (when it was currently due).

Belfast Exit Follow-up & PCI Compliance (Programme Assurance): Jeff Smyth
explained that the management comment was in train.

Post Office Insurance: The Chair felt that the summary table provided was not helpful
and more detail as required as to the outcome of reports. It was agreed that the
audit report rating would be added to the table and if the rating was adverse, there
would be an explanation as to why.

Audit actions: The majority of the actions were to be completed before the January
2021 ARC. The action to “agree the list of Crown Jewels with Post Office’s GE” was
to be done by Jeff Smyth before the January 2021 ARC meeting.

Otherwise, the Committee NOTED the Internal Audit update, specifically progress being
made with delivery of the Internal Audit programme and completion of audit actions.

JA

JA

JA

Js

PCI-DSS and Cyber Security Update

PCI-DSS Programme Update

41

Rob Wilkins introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. The following points were raised:

- In response to a question from the Chair, it was confirmed that progress was
being tracked by this Committee as it was a quasi-regulatory issue.

- There was a major risk of Santander not responding in time for the May
delivery date. This was an issue because Santander transactions could not be
split out from those of other banks easily. It was requested that this be
escalated by Cathy Mayor to Owen Woodley (Group Chief Commercial Officer)
and Nick Read (Group CEO). It was also noted that this was to be discussed
the GE on 13 January 2021.

- The retail pilot was running successfully and the banking accreditation with
Vocalink was also working well.

Otherwise, the Committee NOTED the progress made since the last reporting
period and the key risks as outlined in the paper.

cM

Cyber Security

4.2

Tony Jowett introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. In response to questions from the Committee, Tony Jowett explained
that Post Office was not particularly exposed to attacks similar to that of Solar Winds
but more work was needed, including on the frequency of scanning the network and
more data from Third Parties who attest they have scanned their networks. The

Strictly Confidential Page 8 of 15

POL-BSFF-0238351_0007
POL00423536
POL00423536

Crown Jewels analysis was also part of this work. Jeff Smyth noted that IT certainly
wanted to do more and any projects would be added to the Change list for next year.

Otherwise, the Committee NOTED the status and plans regarding the reduction of
risk associated with Cyber Security including the Crown Jewels analysis for onward
submission to ARC.

Joiners Movers Leavers (JML)

4.3

Tony Jowett introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read.

The Committee NOTED the status and plans regarding the reduction of risk
associated with JML) - in particular those associated with Joiners during the current
hybrid operating model for onward submission to the ARC, subject to the paper being
updated to remind the ARC of the inherent risk across each JML area, how it has
been reduced and what was still to do.

TJ

IT Controls Assessment

Tony Jowett introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. In response to a question from the Chair, it was explained that 10%
of controls were not working, but 34 these were not working because of the absence
of a key person and not having a disaster recover manager in place. This had now
been resolved.

The Committee otherwise NOTED the status and plans regarding the reduction of
risk associated with IT Controls for onward submission to the ARC.

Supply Chain Historical IT Risks

Russell Hancock introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. The Chair questioned how the business can ensure there are no further
instances of “off network” IT equipment being used and the following points were
raised:

- Tony Jowett explained that IT had started a scan of all Supply Chain locations
as well as in person audits to check all equipment.

- Jeff Smyth noted that there was a “bring out your dead” exercise and it was
agreed that that a questionnaire would also be developed to ask the relevant
locations what equipment they had in place and identify anything that might
be “off network.” It was flagged that these questions should include examples
and be as simple as possible. It was further explained that ultimately it came
down to whether the equipment was supported by the Post Office IT team.
The key was to encourage vigilance.

- Russell Hancock also suggested that Post Office IT equipment should include
asset numbers as this would be a clear sign if something had not been
provided centrally.

- It was also highlighted that some of the supply chain teams still had
discretionary spend and there needed to be increased governance around this.
Unfortunately, monitoring the discretionary spend could not have been used
to discover the present issue because the records did not go back far enough,
but moving forwards this could be monitored.

It was also confirmed that Data Protection team were engaged on the present issue.
The Committee NOTED the issues highlighted, the steps being taken to identify and

reduce any potential risks, AGREED the next steps and requested that a further
update be provided to the Committee at its next meeting in March 2021.

js

RH

Strictly Confidential Page 9 of 15

POL-BSFF-0238351_0008
POL00423536
POL00423536

Money Laundering Annual Report

Sally Smith introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. The following points were discussed:

- Resources: There were some resourcing issues within the Financial Crime
team caused by (1) structural changes in the business meaning things that
were no longer being picked up elsewhere and had to be picked up by the
team and (2) a massive increase in issues within the general Financial Crime
landscape (in December 2019 there were 219 Suspicious Activity Reports
(SARs), but in December 2020 this figure stood at 700). The Committee felt
that too much of the financial crime work was being centralised and it needed
to be properly distributed within the business. As such, Lisa Cherry and Sally
Smith were asked to discuss if there were enough people across the business
with the accountability for Financial Crime controls, noting that it was the
Financial Crime’s team to simply check if these controls were good enough
and report accordingly.

- Banks & Money Service Businesses (MSBs): The 2020 National Risk
Assessment (NRA) released in December 2020 had stated to quite a lot of
noise and momentum for the banks to do more to prevent financial crime. In
response to questions from the Chair, Sally Smith confirmed that
responsibility for checking customers are genuine did rest with the banks, but
Post Office, as a regulated entity, needed to demonstrate that it had controls
in place to deal with high risk businesses. Work was being done on improving
the mechanism by which the banks confirm that customers were genuine.

It was requested that Sally Smith write to the banks and make it clear that
MSBs cannot be used through the Post Office network. It was agreed that a
deep dive on the issue was required. Both actions were to be updated for the
next Committee meeting.

Amazon Vouchers: The potential for these to be sold in a way that was being
used fraudulently needed to be urgently addressed and accountability taken
within the Bill Payments/Payzone team. Part of the issue was that the
relationship was managed by Payzone and they did not have access to Post
Office systems. This needed to be resolved. Cathy Mayor and Sally Smith were
asked to follow up with Andrew Goddard and provide an update at the next
Committee meeting.

Sally Smith was also asked to ensure that the report properly addressed the three
questions asked in the report within the conclusion and ensure that the actual
remediation steps were articulated as well as the materiality and scale of each issue.
This should be done prior to the report being submitted to the ARC.

Jeff Smyth also questioned what controls under the PCI-DSS programme could be
used to the support the financial crime controls work. It was agreed that Sally Smith
and Jeff would meet to discuss this further, to update the Committee at its next
meeting.

Lc/ss

ss

cM/SS

ss

ss/IJs

Strictly Confidential Page 10 of 15

POL-BSFF-0238351_0009
POL00423536
POL00423536

Otherwise, the Committee:

i. NOTED the annual report and its conclusions as part of its role in
monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s anti-money-
laundering systems and controls which ensures Post Office’s meets its
regulatory obligations under the Money Laundering Regulations; and

ii. APPROVED the recommendations within paragraphs 9 - 25 of this report
and paragraph F of the Annual Report of the Money Laundering Reporting
Officer, prior to the Annual Report being issued to our regulator, HMRC;

for onward submission to the ARC (subject to the amendments as set out by the
Committee in their discussions).

HR Update

Pensions Assurance

8.1

Lisa Cherry introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. The Chair raised concerns about the potential liability and timescales
of this issue, noting that it might need to be escalated to Nick Read (Group CEO).
Lisa Cherry explained that ultimately, the issue was caused by a Post Office mistake
and as such, it was vital a good relationship with the Trustee was maintained. There
was a Trustee meeting on 23 March 2021, which Lisa Cherry was attending and it is
after this point that any escalation to Nick Read would be considered.

The Chair also highlighted that the longer this was left, the greater the liability
became and there needed to be communication with those affected. Maxine Cross
explained that there was already a comms plan in place to advise those affected that
there might be a problem. In addition Lisa Cherry was working closely with the team
to ensure conversations were taking place at the right level with the CEO of the
Trustees in advance of the Trustee Board meeting in March. Disclosures regarding
the issue might need to be included in the Annual Report and Accounts and as such,
comms would need to be released before such disclosures. The liability was not likely
to be understood until March/April and the ARC Chair indicated that this might need
to considered by the Board in April.

Ben Foat also requested more information on the data and how far it went back. This
was to be provided to Ben directly outside of the Committee before its next meeting
in March 2021.

The Committee otherwise NOTED:
- the progress on Project Assurance, the programme of work to resolve the
closed defined benefit scheme errors;
- the progress against actions from the previous ARC; and
- the continued reporting/dialogue with The Pensions Regulator (TPR);
for onward submission to the ARC.

Lc/MC

Success Factors

8.2

Lisa Cherry introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. It was explained that the Success Factors system configuration was
likely to cost £250,000 and this was already on the change list. It was noted that
this was a legitimate cost as it was for improving controls and reducing errors.

The Committee NOTED the progress of the process improvement work ongoing in
People Shared Service Centre (PSSC) (including Success Factors) for onward
submission to the ARC.

Tax Update & Tax Strategy

Andy Jamieson introduced the paper , which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. The Committee NOTED the Tax Update and APPROVED the annual
review of the Tax Strategy for onward submission to the ARC.

10.

Update on branch losses and balances on Postmaster accounts

Strictly Confidential Page 11 of 15

POL-BSFF-0238351_0010
POL00423536
POL00423536

Tim Perkins introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. The Chair noted that there had been much improvement in this area
and also praised Russell Hancock’s team for their work on cash in this area. The
following was raised:

- A proper piece of analytical work was required to identify the route cause of
discrepancies. The capability to do this was to be built within Tim Perkin’s
team but HMU were supporting.

- There were numerous approved change budgets relating to service
improvements for Postmasters and it was agreed that these budgets should
be added together and an activity prioritisation list prepared such that the
budget could be properly prioritised. It was noted that the Deloitte programme
would be the overarching programme in this area, with smaller programmes
under this.

- Jeff Smyth highlighted that changes to Horizon were also needed. Tim Perkins
explained that Simon Oldnall (Horizon & GLO IT Director) was already
engaged on this and highlighted the need to get data all in one place such
that checks for discrepancies could be run.

- Jeff Smyth also noted that the thinking seemed to be solidifying quickly but
the solution cost was not. This needed to be addressed quickly. Tim Perkins
concurred, noting that the goal was to move to a proactive and preventative
model.

Otherwise, the Committee NOTED the update on balances posted to Postmaster
customer accounts for onward submission to the ARC.

AJ/TP

11.

Postmaster Policies

Tim Perkins introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. It was confirmed that:
- The policies had been agreed with HMU, the National Federation of Sub-
Postmasters (NFSP) and Legal, Compliance and Governance (LCG).
- The policies were broad with the underlying processes being narrower.
- Approval of these policies would close off some outstanding actions within the
Internal Audit Common Issues Judgement report.

It was agreed that the operationalisation of the policies was key and Tim Perkins
would provide an update on the controls implemented to the Committee at its next
meeting.

The following policies were APPROVED for onward submission to the ARC:
e Postmaster Account Support Policy;
« Postmaster Accounting Dispute Resolution Policy; and
« Network Monitoring and Audit Support Policy;

and that, moving forwards, these policies be reviewed and approved annually by the
Committee only.

TP

12.

Mails Fraud Update

Tim Perkins introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. Two points were discussed:

- There was a sense that Post Office was always “coming from behind” when
identifying these issues and there needed to be analytical capability in house
to support identification. Tim Perkins explained that change funding had been
assigned and consideration was being given as to how to procure the best
people for this work. Johann Appel also explained that his team were currently
recruitment a data analytical manager who could support this work. Tim
Perkins, Jeff Smyth and the Chair agreed to discuss the need for more

TP/IS/AC

Strictly Confidential Page 12 of 15

POL-BSFF-0238351_0011
POL00423536
POL00423536

analytical capability with Dan Zinner (Group Chief Operations Officer) and
provide an update to the Committee at its next meeting.

- Post Office was now dependent on Royal Mail to continue the investigation (to
allow Horizon data to be consolidated against the actual mail) and as yet they
had not provided a date as to when this investigation would be conducted.

Accordingly, the Committee NOTED a mails fraud identified on 25 November 2020
through a whistleblow received by an Area Manager from a member of staff in an
agency Post Office.

13.

Historical Matters Unit: Fraudulent Claims Controls & Delegation of
Authority

Graham Hemingway introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and
was taken as read. It was highlighted that:

- The action relating to responsibilities, accountabilities and decision-making
authorities (including the extent of delegation of authority) to be clarified via
completion of a RACI matrix was ongoing due to discussions with UK
Government Investments (UKGI) and the Department of Business, Energy
and Industrial Strategy (BEIS). It was thought this would be ready for the
ARC on 26 January 2021 and it was requested that the matrix was sent to the
Committee before being submitted to the ARC.

- In response to questions from the Committee, it was explained that risks by
workstream were reported to the Board and Declan Salter was to report to
the GE once a month. As such it was agreed that this topic need not be
reported through to this Committee and the ARC, but that the GE report
should include risk and controls.

Otherwise, the Committee NOTED how are risks relating to fraudulent claims being
managed in the Historical Shortfall Scheme (and the Stamps Scheme) and that
controls are in place to confirm the eligibility of claims for onward submission to the
ARC.

GH

DS/GH

14.

Policies for Approval

Jonathan Hill presented the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. The following was highlighted:

- Cyber and Information Security Policy: This was a regular annual update with
minor changes included in the updated policy.

- Vetting Policy: The original has been considerably updated and split out into
two separate policies for employees and Postmasters/Assistants as the vetting
procedures were considerably different.

- Investigations Policy: This was a significant revision. The policy set the
minimum standards for investigation practices across the business and where
there were other specific policies which specific requirements (i.e. relating to
Postmasters) those policies would take precedence. An investigations group
would be set up to create effective minimum control standards and
management information (MI).

The following policies were APPROVED for onward submission to the ARC:
- Cyber & Information Security;
- Investigations (subject to Jonathan Hill/Ben Foat checking the reference to
reporting concerns to the CEO as raised by Amanda Jones); and
- Employee, Postmaster & Postmaster Assistant Vetting Requirements (subject
to the policy being reviewed to ensure that the job titles included were up-to-
date following the recent restructure).

JH/BF

JH

15.

Subsi

jary Policy Mandate

Strictly Confidential Page 13 of 15

POL-BSFF-0238351_0012
POL00423536
POL00423536

Jonathan Hill presented the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. It was explained that all Group Policies were, by default, to be adopted
by Post Office’s subsidiaries unless there was a legal, regulatory or other material
reason why they could not. It was also confirmed that Payzone were presently
working through the Group Policies to establish which could be adopted. The Payzone
Board had discussed the adoption of policies and concluded that Payzone should not
adopt different policies to those of the Group where at all possible. Lisa Cherry also
highlighted that it must be clear that Post Office Limited only People policies should
not apply to subsidiaries, although this would be addressed by being clear that the
mandate applied to Group Policies only. It was agreed that this would be rectified
before the paper was presented to the ARC.

Otherwise, the Committee APPROVED the following Subsidiary Policy Mandate:

i. Subsidiaries must adopt all Group Policies unless it cannot do so for a
legal, regulatory or other material reason;

ii. Where subsidiaries cannot adopt a Group Policy for one of the above
reasons, subsidiary shall adopt its own policy in that area that is aligned
to the Group Policy;

iii. This adapted subsidiary policy must be reviewed and approved by the Post
Office Limited (POL) Compliance team and the POL Policy Owner, who shall
confirm alignment to the Group Policy; and

iv. This process would not apply to Post Office Insurance (POI) regulatory
policies, being Risk, Conduct Risk, Vulnerable Customers, Ex Gratia,
Remuneration and any other policies as required by the Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA). Where these policies are adopted by the POI Board, the
Company Secretariat shall notify POL Compliance of the adoption such
that their records can be updated;

for onward submission to the ARC (subject to the amendment of the paper to define
“Group Policy” within the paper).

JH

16.

Procurement Compliance & Governance

Barbara Brannon presented the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. It was highlighted that the GE were due to discuss the proposed nine
month extension to the contract for Cheque Processing for Postal Orders and
Camelot, which was required to make the contract co-terminus with the existing
Corporate Banking contract as the would be operational issues if the services from
separated. The Corporate Banking contract was due to be re-procured in Q3 2021
and the cheque processing services would be brought within the scope of this re-
procurement. Overall, Procurement Compliance was an improving area.

The Committee NOTED the Procurement Compliance & Governance report
specifically, the Procurement Risk Exceptions submitted to the Post Office Limited
Group Executive and Board since November 2020 and the contracts in the
Procurement pipeline.

17.

Law & Trends Update

Ben Foat presented the paper, which had been circulated previously and was taken
as read. The following was highlighted:
- New guidance has been published on Data Subject Access Requests
- (DSARs) and there was “stop the clock” provision which allowed the business
to ask questions of requestees
- The London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) would change to Sterling
Overnight Indexed Average (“SONIA”) later in 2021, which would have an
impact on commercial loan agreements.
- There were some areas of concern which were being monitored relating to
property litigation.

Strictly Confidential Page 14 of 15

POL-BSFF-0238351_0013
POL00423536

POL00423536
The Committee NOTED the Law & Trends report and the new or proposed material
changes to laws and regulations since its last meeting for onward submission to the
ARC.

18. Review of draft Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee meeting agenda for
26 January 2021
The draft ARC agenda for 26 January 2021 was NOTED. The Chair suggested that
the Mails Fraud paper could be noted at the ARC (without presentation) if the ARC
Chair agreed.

19. Any other Business
There was no other business.

Strictly Confidential Page 15 of 15

POL-BSFF-0238351_0014
