POL00295067

POL00295067
From: Rod Ismay[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=ROD.ISMAYB8406224-7AE7-4FF 1-B8E6-
F1A8E506F2E5]
Sent: Fri 18/11/2011 6:16:25 PM (UTC)
To: Lesley J Sewell”

Subject: FW: Parliamentary Questions about Horizon

Lesley — to confirm Mike is aware of the status.
Please can you and I speak though next week.
Thanks, Rod

From: Mike Young

Sent: 18 November 2011 17:08

To: Rod Ismay

Cc: Mike Granville

Subject: Re: Parliamentary Questions about Horizon

Guys

Sorry not to have got back to you sooner, been stuck in the MDA negotiations all day.
\'m OK with the approach and the wording.

Mike

From: Rod Ismay

Sent: Friday, November 18, 2011 05:59 PM

To: Mike Young

Cc: Mike Granville

Subject: RE: Parliamentary Questions about Horizon

Mike — we have updated page 6 of the draft response as regards operational issues. The updated text is as advised
by the supplier to Dave H. It remains consistent with our robust stance but is a more concise set of words. Mike G
and I will discuss with relevant parties again on Monday but as before please do let us know any comments you have
at this stage.

We would expect to run final versions via yourself, CMD, KG and SC prior to Paula sign off.

I also have a call out with Dave P to agree on wording as regards suspensions, prosecutions etc.

Thanks, Rod

From: Mike Granville

Sent: 18 November 2011 12:32

To: Mike Young

Cc: Rod Ismay

Subject: Parliamentary Questions about Horizon

Mike,

We are currently putting together a draft reply to a number of PQ’s raised by Mike Weir MP about Horizon. They are

questions that the Minister has deemed to be ‘operational matters’ and he has referred the through for Paula to reply.
We will need probably to get a reply away next week in answer to these questions. The reply we give will be lodged in
the House and will effectively be public domain
POL00295067
POL00295067

The questions parallel separate ones that we have had in a Freedom of Information request (that is probably linked to
JFSA). We are also aware the BBC is interested in the answer that will be given to this PQ with respect to their
prospective Inside Out documentary in the East. Finally Shoosmiths are no doubt looking at all of this with interest re
their current letters before claim. The various strands all seem to be linked.

I'm sending over the current draft therefore so that you are aware of the overall approach being suggested to this PQ.

It is a long response because it is seeking to establish the overall context and give the full overall picture — and there
are data gaps in it at present where Rod is seeking information.

Please can I ask you to have a look at the draft and ask if you have any input or comment about it (particularly
whether there are any further technical aspects of the system that we should highlight — a particular area would be
whether we could quote a number of technical ‘accreditations’ that will help support the concept that this is industry
standard.

When the data is input, the final draft will need to do the rounds of Group Comms, Legal, Finance and Network before
Paula signs off — but I’m sure that Paula will seek your view early on the final copy that is put before her — and
therefore I though it worthwhile that you could see it in its current state.

Please could I therefore ask if you could take a look and let Rod and I know if there are any comments/ suggestions.
Thanks

Mike

Mike Granville

Head of Stakeholder Relations

Post Office Ltd

1st Floor, 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ.

