POL00137330
POL00137330

Sub-Postmaster Improvements &
Mediations

Weekly Steering Group
26" July 2013

©

POL00137330
POL00137330

Agenda &

1. Actions from previous meetings

2. Agree the roles and relationships of the governance bodies, work groups and work
streams

Review actions and outstanding issues from the mediation workshop
Review High level Plan

Agree process for identifying key risks and a pre-mortem analysis

aa FF w

Documentation for JFSA cases

Decisions for this meeting:

1.Agree roles of governance bodies

2.Agree to hold a risk workshop, to create a baseline
risk register

3.Do we want to start extracting documentation for the
18 JFSA cases, in anticipation that they will be
registered for mediation

@)
Actions

POL00137330
POL00137330

@

Actions from last meeting:

Change plan to align to our commitments; adjudication,
working group, branch user form

2 Add in a general comms section in the plan (not just mp
engagement)

%) Add in a “culture change” stream/sub group

4 Set up weekly steering committee

5 Split process improvement part of the plan into the sub
groups

6 Define process for subpostmasters to appeal outside the
line

t Add technical work stream into plan to track key IT
improvements

Simon

Simon

Angela/Simon

Simon

Simon

Susan/ Angela

Simon

31/7

31/7

7/8

25/7

2/08

718

2/08

Open

Open

Open

Complete

Open

Open

Open

©)
Actions

POL00137330
POL00137330

Other key programme actions:

Create a mediation agreement — explaining the mediation Andy Parsons
process and the obligations on all parties

2 Send email to JA summarizing the agreed process and start Ruth / Mark
engagement with MPs

5, Create Branch User Forum TOR Angela /

Lesley

4 Agree TOR for process improvement projects Gayle Peacock

<3) Respond to Criminal cases review commission Susan

6 Prepare paper on pros and cons of continuing to bring Susan

prosecutions

30/7

12/08

2/08

26/07

28/08

Open

Open

Open

Open

Open

Open

©)
Governance and subgroups

POL00137330

POL00137330

Weekly Steering Group

Programme Board (monthly)

Governance

Oversight Weekly stream lead meeting
Board
Working Line of Project Board
Group Business
Mediation Legal Improvements
§ 4 @ ails $ a io Ie VS VE WS g 2
28 EalssI IZ I2 2 IS he V2 TE WS
se 20 5% 2 2 yo £ 5 Ie Ff
@ @ & s @ e a S} wn
= 3 68 gs I= =z Ie
faa a oO
[ra

Work Groups

©)
Governance and subgroups

POL00137330
POL00137330

@

RE

Steering group

Monthly Oversight
Board

Programme Board

Stream Lead meeting

Working Group

Branch User Forum

Provide overall governance,
issue escalation, and strategic
guidance

Govern the Mediation process

Provide governance of overall
process. Reports to the weekly
steering group

Provide weekly governance of
working groups

Assist the mediation process
by: providing guidance,
expertise and independance.
Reports into the Monthly
Oversight Board

Input on improvement
opportunities, feedback on
current ways of working

Paula Vennells (or Chris Day),
Susan Crichton, ey Holt, Alwen
Lyons, Angela Van Den Bogerd,
Lesley Sewell, Mark Davies,
Martin Edwards (optional), Simon
Baker

Independent Chair, plus Working
Group

Susan Crichton, Andy Holt, Alwen
Lyons, Angela Van Den Bogerd,
Lesley Sewell, Mark Davies,
Martin Edwards (optional), Simon
Baker, Gayle Peacock

Stream leads

JFSA, Second Sight, Angela
VDB,

JFSA? NFSP?, POL, Crown?

Weekly

Monthly

Monthly

Weekly

Monthly

©)
Horizon Investigation and Improvements - High level Plan

POL00137330
POL00137330

Work Stream 2013 2014
Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr

Case Reviews and A\22/97 JA meeting to agree inyestigation stope and approach

Mediation ‘I 25/07 Workshop to define Ways of Wdrking

Angela VDB A 05/08 New ways of working fully implemented

Andy Holt n "

“spot review" Team AI 22/08 Medigtor appointed

BD and Paralegal support Aj 24/08 TOR flor Monthly Gversight Board agreed

Second Sight 30/10 complete first case

p8/02 All 25 ys cases completed A
01/03 Start mediation process for new cases A
Monthly Oversight Bdards 4 A A A A Al A A
MP Engagement 22/07 Agree Appfoach with JA
30/07 JA to communicate prgcess to MP:

Angela VDB IA 01/08 Start engagemenkjwith MPs —jindividually ¢xplaining how we will revjew their cases

Mark Davies 01/10 Start taking MPs through there actual case — highest priority first

Alwen Lyons . .

Second Sight AI 31/10 Joint MP update meeting

15/03 Engagement with MPs for 25 investigation cases complete

Branch User Forum A 12/08 Create Draft TOR

Angela VDB A 15/08 Start engagement with interested parties

Lesley Sewell seh G . .

a 06/09 complete engagement with interested partes, including NFSP
A 13//99 Issue final]TOR and send out invitations to first
forum, 05/10 F)rst Branch User Forum
Branch User Forunh meets regularly & A A A A A
(frequency agreed in TOR))

I Notes. Ct! Version 004 20130724
I Draft status.
AOn Track Z\Achieved Milestone A Original Date (not achieved) _/\ Delayed (no impact) At Risk/ Delayed A Issue / Delayed \E)
Cy Names of critical resources (potential impact) (material impact)
Horizon Investigation and Improvements - High level Plan

POL00137330
POL00137330

Work Stream 2013 2014
Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr
Process Improvement 1402/08 Agret Terms of Reference
\& 02/08 Establish Programme Governance and Working Group:

Angela VOB . . aay

Andy Holt A 15/08 Identify “Quick Wins’

Cova Peaceck A 05/10 AllI “Quick Wing” Implemented

Craig Tuthill A 02/08 Start mapping the “as is” protess

Drew McBride . .

Karl Oliver I 30/09 Compfete mapping the “as is” process

Pomre A 25/10 Complete gap analysis — create cpsted proposal

sue aromas A I22/08 Define] process for appealing cages outside the line

wan SeawiSally smith Al 30/11 Funding for proposal approved

aug row IA 01/11 Preparation work for proposed changes cbmmence

Ann Miller A 01/12 start implementing propose changes

31/03 jall proposed changes implemented Aj
15/4 implement mechanism to ensure all prpcesses are fegularly A
reviewedjand continue to be fit for Jpurpose
Culture Change
i it i i i I it it i
I Notes. : Version 004 20130724
I Draft status. I
in Track chieved Milestone riginal Date (not achieved) /Delayed (no impact) \t Risk/ Delayed issue / Delayed (material 8
a A R ke
~ (potential impact) impact)

{-__] Names of critical resources
POL00137330
POL00137330

Horizon Investigation and Improvements - High level Plan &

Work Stream 2013 2014

Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr

Legal
/\05/07 Tactical ways df working injplemented, jall cases reviewed individually

Susan Crichton oe 7 7 .
Hugh Flemington L\17/97 Initial Sift}of cases completed andIdisclosure provided to defence, up tp January 2010
Bo supper 426/07 Agree Response toI Criminal cabes review commission

o

‘@ paper on pros and cons of continying to bring] prosecution

20/08 Second sift complete}
A{I28/08 ren

A 19/09 Fresent paper to ARC

A 25/08 Define rpute for prosecuted cas¢s post disclosure

A30/01 Considef the need for an
adjudication processI

A A A A A A A A A
Monthly Reporting to Programme Board

Governance A 15/08 Agree programme board Terms of [Reference

a A A A A A A A A
Monthly Programme Board
Other Governance meetings include:
Daily $tatus meetin:

Define an Twice weekly update Meeting with external lawyers
Weekly stream lead meetings
appeals leekly key gtakeholder njeetings
Weekly Steering Group (Paulb as Chair)

I Not -PFOGESS.
I Notes: . .
I Draft status. outside the line

Version 004 20130724

a Track

Achieved Milestone Riiginal Date (not achieved) /Yelayed (no impact) \t Risk/ Delayed Agsue / Delayed (material \9)
~ (potential impact) impact)

{-__] Names of critical resources
POL00137330
POL00137330

Risk workshop ce)

¢ We don’t yet a risk register for this programme of work
(although we have registered a risk on POL’s company wide
risk register).

¢ Proposal that we hold a risk workshop / pre-mortem analysis
week commencing 5/08. Objective will be to produce an
initial risk register.

e Attendees: Alwen, Susan, Angela, Simon, Martin (optional),
Ruth or Mark.

¢ These will be reported each week at the weekly steering
group in the form of a heat map.

e Any changes each week will be reported to the weekly
steering group for noting

©
POL00137330
POL00137330

Documentation C2)

¢ We have extracted all documentation for the 25 MPs cases

« They have been sent to Second Sight, we have also loaded
them onto the legal network drive and available for those with
access.

¢ Some documents aren’t properly indexed, we are working to
ensure that this is fixed.

¢ We have not extracted any documentation for the 18 JFSA
cases

¢ At this point, we don’t know which of the 18 JFSA cases will
go into mediation

* Do we want to start extracting documentation for the 18
JFSA cases, in anticipation that they will be registered for
mediation.

©
POL00137330
POL00137330

Appendix — our public commitments &

1. The creation of a working party to work collaboratively to complete the review of cases
started by Second Sight last year. This would examine the themes identified by Second Sight
and consider all cases brought forward by the JFSA and MPs, together with any new themes
which emerge from these cases. The JFSA have been invited to join this working party.

2. A review chaired by an independent figure to determine how an independent safety net
might be introduced to adjudicate in disputed cases in the future. Again the JFSA and other
stakeholders will be invited to take part in this process.

3. A new Branch User Forum to provide a way for sub-postmasters and others to raise issues
and insights around business processes, training and support, directly feeding into the
organisation’s thinking at the highest level. A key task for this forum will be to review support
processes and training to ensure they meet the standards expected of the Post Office.

@
