POLO0099051
POL00099051

Message

From: Paula Vennells Deen GRO)
on behalfof i

Sent:
To:

} Mark R Davies [, Alwen Lyons

cc:
Subject: Re: Proposed way forward

§ Susan Crichton {

Hi, thank you for the inputs today. Susan I need your thoughts on the note below especially 1) and 2) please and the
questions at the end of the mail.

I think we have the following which is a variant:

1) a working party over the next three/four months. This comprises PO working collaboratively with the JFSA and does
three things:

*. Firstly explores the SS (8) themes for improvement (can we get less than 8?) and agrees how they can be
implemented.

* Secondly, looks at the remaining past cases with JFSA (and MPs if they wish) to see if either further themes or new
evidence emerge.

*. Thirdly, our external lawyers review all prosecutions in the past 12/18 months since PO has been independent of RM,
in the light of the SS findings. The JFSA/PO working group reviews the findings.

[Why would they not review all cases of false accounting, eg., over the last 5-10 years, especially where the amounts
have been 'small'? I assume ‘large' amounts would be less likely to get away with saying they were muddle-headed and
not helped? But could we review all? It is the false accounting charge JA was most concerned about.]}

© Does the working party update JA in the autumn?

2) setting up of a review (chaired by PB/MO'C type) again via joint working between PO and JFSA, to determine how an
independent safety net might be introduced ie., a commitment to an independent adjudicator or (non-statutory)
ombudsman and the clear intention to agree scope and ToR.

3) the future introduction of an ongoing branch user group, once the working party has completed it's task. This will
ensure ongoing independent involvement of Spmrs/(inc JFSA if they would like) to ensure the business listens to and
acts upon issues as they arise; and as importantly, consults users on future systems planning and changes.

[4) a statement that although the system has been proved to have no systemic issues, and our training, support
processes and helplines have worked for most of the 50-60000 colleagues over the past decade, we are nonetheless
genuinely sorry that some of our Spmrs, who were struggling did not feel we offered them sufficient help and support
when they needed it. And that we are grateful to JFSA and JA for highlighting the issues. Many are historic and already
improved but we are always open to new ways to improve how we do business to ensure the PO stays as trusted and
effective in its communities as it ever was.]

Last thought: if we can draft this into something I could send to Alan Bates ‘in confidence’, it would get us to a better
place in agreeing the press statement and way through with JA on Monday. Could Martin try and corral views into a
draft by Sunday early pm? The more I speak with him the better I feel it will be.

Susan, would we ever ask the lawyers to consider reviewing past prosecutions? Is that what we are talking about in 1)
above but simply not using the terms? If not, why would it be different? Of our 500 prosecutions, how many are false
accounting? (For clarity these are open questions - just want to know the answers, not an indication that I want us to do

so.)

Thanks, Paula

POL-0098634
POLO0099051
POL00099051

Sent from my iPad

On 6 Jul 2013, at 21:08, “Martin Edwards' wrote:

Hmm, the boundaries between these groups are getting quite blurred and confusing (at least in my
mind!).

I thought the focus of the working group involving the JFSA would be primarily thematic (i.e. the 8 or so
themes which emerged from the SS process) - rather than focussing on resolving specific cases, which
we would pick up through the seperate 1:1 briefings with MPs. The description below appears to shift it
more towards the latter. Perhaps this is an academic distinction which we can't sustain in practice, but it
certainly feels like safer territory to have the JFSA focussing on themes to do with training and support
(which would then morph into the branch user forum) rather than individual cases...

Or have I misunderstood?

We also need to think about how the review of past cases by our external lawyers plays into the
messaging (if at all). Certainly not something we would put in our proactive media statement I would
have thought, but would we refer to this in meetings as an avenue if pushed by MPs or the JFSA?

Martin

Martin Edwards
Chief of Staff to the Chief Executive
Post Office

On 6 Jul 2013, at 18:18, "Mark R Davies"

wrote:

I think that is the working group (number 2 below).
Sent from my iPad

On 6 Jul 2013, at 17:53, "Alwen Lyons"

I think the only thing that is missing from James' agenda maybe not
Alan's is what we do about past cases to scorch the suggestion os unfair
convictions

Thanks
Alwen

Alwen Lyons
Company Secretary

Sent from Blackberry

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: Saturday, July 06, 2013 04:46 PM

To: Paula Vennells

Cc: Martin Edwards; Mark R Davies; Lesley J Sewell; Susan Crichton;
Alwen Lyons; Theresa Iles

POL-0098634
POLO0099051
POL00099051

Subject: Re: Proposed way forward

Hi Paula

I think this points to the need for our package of measures to include
two and possibly three new initiatives:

1. A Branch User Forum - for existing users to share views, discuss
issues, examine processes etc.. Chaired by Exco and reporting to Exco.
But this doesn't cover historic issues (ie the JFSA and MP cases) so we
could also have (2)

2. Aworking party, to use Alan's phrase, to complete the MP and JFSA.
cases. This could "take over" the Second Sight review (perhaps involving
them but perhaps not as they have effectively "cleared" Horizon, the
remit of their inquiry).This would involve the JFSA and us working
collaboratively on the remaining cases. We might wish to include an
external party in this too (a PWC?). This is the area of greatest risk -
looking back at historic cases which have gone through the courts. But it
is also completing the job we asked SS to do.

3. Areview by a Mike o Connor or Patrick Burns figure to consider
potential independent levers which could be developed to give SPMRs a
means of independent adjudication or (non statutory) ombudsman.
This package, it feels to me, covers all bases. It looks ahead to fix
internal issues and create independent balancing view, but it also
completes the review and has the potential for doing so with SS playing

a different, or no, role.

It is also a compelling package for media, which handled carefully, could
contain the story.

Grateful for views.

Mark

Sent from my iPad

On 6 Jul 2013, at 10:35, "Paula Vennells"
i wrote:

FYI and for any thoughts pls
Paula
Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: Paula Vennells

‘Date: 6 Juiy 2013 10
To: Alan Bates

POL-0098634
Subject: Re: Proposed way forward

Alan, thank you for the note. Yes, I
thought the meeting with James was
positive too. My main concern is still
how we manage the publicity, to avoid -
as you said - it 'going ballistic’.

We had a useful conversation re a
statement from James with quotes
from you and me, or possible joint
statement. And agreed we would pick
up again on Monday.

Ours is now bring re-worked in the light
of that and as we liaise with SS over the
weekend on some changes to the
report where it is factually inaccurate. I
am hopeful these will be addressed.

Once I have a final draft, I would be
happy to send across to you.

It would be good to meet on Monday.
And as I haven't met Kay, then I would
be happy to extend the meeting to
include her and I would bring Alwen
Lyons, who is our Company Secretary -
Alwen has been the key lead on the
liaison with James' office.

In the meantime, I hope you enjoy the
glorious weather - at last!

Paula

Ps. You were on my list to call today but
I imagine this email exchange is
sufficient now? However, if you would
like to speak at any time, don't hesitate
to text me.

Sent from my iPad

On 6 Jul 2013, at 09:51, "Alan Bates"

it GRO “> wrote:

Hello Paula

I understand the
meeting with James
Arbuthnot went well on

POLO0099051
POL00099051

POL-0098634
Friday and I believe he
will be discussing his
views with me on
Monday morning.

lam sure you will agree
that it is important that
we have even an
outline document of
the proposed way
forward we have
discussed, before the
MPs' meeting. As soon
as it is available, I would
appreciate seeing your
version of what is
proposed, hopefully
amended to address
the comment below.

Looking through my
notes from our last
conversation, there is
an early item of
concern, that being the
name of the panel
which you referred to
as the ‘user

group’. Whilst I can
appreciate you want
such a group to
continue on into the
future, at which time
such a name may be
suitable. Initially, and
whilst it is also looking
at the issues
surrounding the report
and the cases, possibly
‘task group' or ‘working
party’ might be more
accurate, as technically,
the bulk of JFSA are ex
users, and others will
no doubt pick up on the
name. I could offer
‘review board’, but I

POLO0099051

POL00099051

POL-0098634
POLO0099051
POL00099051

could see that might
not be acceptable.

Regarding Monday 8",
do you still want to
meet? If we do meet,
and others are to
attend, I would like Kay
Linnell, who has been
working with us for the
last year, to accompany
me. With travel
arrangement to finalise,
I would appreciate a
response to that point
as soon as you are able
to let me know.

Regards

Alan

POL-0098634
