POL00132958
POL00132958

From: Mark R Davies*
Sent: Tue 09/06/2015 8:
To: Paula Vennells{,
Ce: Jane MacLeodf*
Subject: Re: Panorama

"18 PM (UTC)

I don't think we need a conversation with Michael at present. Lesley is in touch with Gavin Bell and we are talking to their comms
people. I will come back to you after the meeting with lawyers tomorrow.

Their lines of questioning will be very familiar to you: happy to go through them. But in essence: confidence in Horizon, transaction
corrections, relationship with Second Sight, remote access, prosecutions approach, helplines (level of support). We taped the
conversation and are getting a transcript.

I think they may be trying to build a story about the relationship between ourselves and Fujitsu - "did Fujitsu give PO the full story?" -
but this is speculation on my part (and of course no evidence they didn't) as we believe they have been filming outside Bracknell.

We will discuss with Fujitsu. They could agree to an interview but we need to think through with them. Suggest we do that through
comms at this stage and keep you informed.

Mark
Mark Davies

Comm
Mobile:

id Corporate Affairs Director

> On 9 Jun 2015, at 20:56, Paula Vennells <
>

> V helpful thanks Mark.

> I don't think we could do anything more at this stage. I'd like to know their line of questioning - we can catch 5 mins tomorrow.
>

> Who are we in touch with at Fujitsu? And would it help if I spoke to Michael Keegan?
>

> Speak tomorrow,

> Paula

>

> Sent from my iPhone

>

>> On 9 Jun 2015, at 20:01, Mark R Davies
>>

>> Paula

>> We met the Panorama team (Producer and researcher) today. This was an on the record briefing (taped by both sides) to provide
them with the opportunity to ask questions of us (and of course for us to try to assess their line of attack).

>> It was a worthwhile meeting which last just over 2 hours. Angela and Patrick were able to answer all their questions, with ease.
They clearly found it helpful but we should not delude ourselves - they came well briefed (from JFSA etc...) and will come back to us
with more questions. But it gives us a strong hand - we have been open and helpful and that can only help as this moves along.

>> The programme is now planned for June 29 (though could move again).

>> Tam discussing our next steps with the lawyers tomorrow. At this stage we are right to keep things at this level - we will escalate
once we know more (either they return with "new''questions or we can say with iustification that they have not moved things on.

>> They are edging towards looking at Fujitsu and have asked for an interview there. We are in touch with them and will agree an
approach.

>> They asked lots of questions about Bracknell. Angela is going to try to visit Bracknell which will be a good line to have up our
sleeve.

>> At the same time BIS has written to JFSA at official level to knock back request for meeting and urge them to engage with the
mediation process.

>> We are also monitoring the election for the new chair of the BIS committee: hopefully it will not be Adrian Bailey and he is
facing two challenges from other Labour MPs. Election is next week.

>> Thope this is helpful update.

>> Mark

>>

wrote:
POL00132958
POL00132958

Corporate Affairs Director
i

