Minutes from SS/Mediation/Branch Improvement Programme - 26" July 2013

Attendees: Chris Day, Alwen Lyons, Simon Baker, Susan Crichton, Angela Van-Den-Bogerd, Mark Davies, Andy Holt,

Not present: Paula Vennells, Martin Edwards, Lesley Sewell

POL00137340
POL00137340

Key Decisions:
1. Governance Groups as described in the slide pack were agreed. We will need to review and adjust these as
the programme progresses.
2. Risk Workshop will be held in early August. Additional attendees were suggested and will be invited
3. We will start extracting the documentation for the potential new JFSA cases.
Actions:
Ref__Action Who Due
1 Draft an e-mail to JA, providing an update of the workshop and a Simon 26/7
communication he can forward to the other MPs
2 Prepare draft costs for overall programme of work for discussion at Simon o1/o8
next weekâ€™s meeting
3 Include an update on the review of legal cases in future meetings Simon 01/08
4 Find an independent Chair for the Monthly Oversight Board Mark 08/08
5 Prepare a strategy paper for MP engagement Mark 08/08
6 Arrange a risk workshop Simon 08/08
Zz Prepare a proposal on how we contribute to sub postmasters Simon 01/08

expenses for mediation and funding an independent advisor

