POL00108377
POL00108377

Message

From: Belinda Crowe [IMCEAEX-
__O=MMS_OU=EXCHANGE+20ADMINISTRATIVE+20GROUP+20+28FYDIBOHF23SPDLT+29_CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=BELINDA+20CROV
S69F-4526-A078-F5B4958A8917220:

on behalf of Belinda Crowe <IMCEAEX-
__O=MMS_OU=EXCHANGE+20ADMINISTRATIVE+20GROUP+20+28FYDIBOHF23SPDLT+29_CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=BELINDA+20CROV
S69F-4526-A078-F5B4958A8917220: [IMCEAEX-
_O=MMS_OU=EXCHANGE+20ADMINISTRATIVE+20GROUP+20+28FYDIBOHF23SPDLT+29_CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=BELINDA+20CRO\
S69F-4526-A078-F5B4958A8917220;

Sent: 01/04/2014 11:18:36

To: Sarah Paddison I

ce:

Subject: Re: URGENT: Sparrow update

Attachments :image001.png; image002.png

Thanks Sarah. Could we please do this monday rather than tomorrow.
Thanks

Belinda

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, FC1V. 9HQ.
GRO I

belinda.crow¢

On 1 Apr 2014, at 10:56, "Sarah Paddison

Hi Belinda

Following your conversation last night, Paula wanted me to check whether you have decided if you would like to move
the Sparrow meeting that is scheduled in tomorrow? If you would, she has asked if you could let everyone know that the
meeting tomorrow is cancelled and that Paula can free up time in her diary on Monday at 12:30 for 1 hour. Paula said
the core people that need to be in attendance are her, Chris Aujard and Mark Davies, yourself and David Oliver (and any
other attendees Chris Aujard would like to attend).

Many Thanks
Sarah
Sarah Paddison I Assistant to the Office of the Chief Executive

<image001.png>
,-LLEloor Bunbill Row

Street, London, ECLV 9HQ

I GRO } Postline

From: Belinda Crowe

Sent: 31 March 2014 17:18

To: Sarah Paddison

Subject: Fw: URGENT: Sparrow update
Importance: High

POL-0110979
POL00108377
POL00108377

From: Theresa Iles

Sent: Monday, March 31, 2014 01:58 PM

To: Chris Aujard; Mark R Davies; Belinda Crowe; David Oliver
Cc: Amanda A Brown; Louise Chatfield

Subject: URGENT: Sparrow update

Hi all
Please note that Paula would like to hold the review session with you this Wednesday 2 April at 16:00 (her room 106).
Can you please note this in diaries accordingly and send over any pre-reading by close of play tomorrow.

Thanks
Theresa

From: Chris Aujard

Sent: 28 March 2014 18:18
To: Paula Vennells

Ce: David Olivet
lles

Subject: Re: Sparrow update

lark R Davies; Chris M Day; Neil Hayward; Belinda Crowe; Lesley ] Sewell; Rodric Williams; Theresa

Hi Paula - the core team for the review meeting works for me. That said (David) I am really keen to "capture" the
constructive thoughts of all beforehand, so can we build express steps into the process somehow to make sure we
do? Bon weekend Chris

Sent from my iPhone

On 28 Mar 2014, at 05:26 pm, "Paula Vennells"

David, thanks for trying to set up a meeting. I agree we need one.

I would like to be clear that when we do, you and the team will walk me through a draft plan, which
other senior managers/directors will have had input to already. And if that is the case, we will have a
much more productive, shorter and smaller meeting. I will add most value where I can iterate and
challenge the options ie., not as part of a working meeting. I'd like Chris A to confirm but it seems to me
that the core is Mark, Chris A, me, for the review meeting.

Are you ok with this?
Any queries - pls ask.

Re the points below, thank you for letting us know. I guess not a surprise but serious and disappointing. I
did say to Chris A and to Alice that I should probably have a call with TH now. He promised to get back to
me in four weeks and knows this is a big deal for us. It is 5 weeks already. I would appreciate some
thoughts. (Chris A - you might drop me a note or stop by on Monday - we'll need to get diary work
started to line up with TH.) Chris D: I'm concerned that we continue to pay for sub-standard work, could
you think about what opportunities there might be to contain/carefully fire a shot across their bows?

And it's Friday pm. So I hope everyone has a good weekend!

Paula

POL-0110979
On 28 Mar 2014, at 12:21, "David Olive:

Sent from my iPad

All,

POL00108377
POL00108377

} wrote:

I wanted to send you all a quick update on where things have got to with Second Sight.

e = <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->Second Sight were due to deliver their
thematic report and the factual briefing report on 26 March.

e  <!--[if lsupportLists]--><![endif]-->They have not delivered either report yet.

e  <l--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->We had a conference call of the Working
Group yesterday where they informed us that neither report would be ready by
1 April for the next face to face session of the Working Group.

e  <l--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->They came under a lot of pressure over their

delivery — primarily from Tony Hooper and JFSA.

e  <!--[if lsupportLists]--><![endif]-->We have now agreed that we will review the
Post Office factual contribution (which we had provided SS with on 13 March to
help them with their fact piece) at the working group on 1 April and will discuss
the problems second sight are having in producing a thematic report.

In following up the Board actions we are moving to work up the options and the spec of
the assurance piece and we are looking to convene a meeting of this group at the tail

end of next week to review the work.
Regards
David

David Oliver
Programme Manager

Initial Complaint and Med
David.oliver!

POL-0110979
