POL00371699
POL00371699

Message
From: Alwen Lyons [/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF 23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=ALWEN.LYONS648EE5C4-F2A8-40E2-9F55-1B9B1E4F6D52)
Sent: 28/06/2013 14:14:55
To: Paula Vennells{_
cc: Sarah Paddison f~
Subject: RE: next steps on Horizon issues - update

No I don't think so as Susan is coming in

From: Theresa Iles On Behalf Of Paula Vennells
Sent: 28 June 2013 14:26

To: Alwen Lyons

Cc: Sarah Paddison

Subject: RE: next steps on Horizon issues - update

Alwen
Is Paula going to join the SS meeting on Monday?
Kind regards

Theresa

Theresa Iles I Assistant to Paula Vennells, Chief Executive

postoffice.co.uk
@postofficenews

From: Alwen Lyons

Sent: 28 June 2013 13:12

To: Paula Vennells

Subject: next steps on Horizon issues - update

Paula

Rod Ismay and Lesley working the detail of the 2 bugs, to understand them and then get them into language

that is clear and can be communicated

e Mark is putting in place expert external comms resource to be dedicated to this issue from Monday ( this will be

from an external agency which he trusts

e We have a call with SS this afternoon and we will run through the individual cases to see how far they will have
got by next Tuesday's briefing with James and the meeting date on the 8", this will inform my conversation with

Janet on Monday
POL0037 1699
POL00371699

© lam going to spend time with Janet at 9.00 on Monday morning, she says she can give me as long as it takes. My
approach will be try to get to understand the status of the review and the risk to James and us of an incomplete
interim report. I will share the fact that SS are not using all the evidence they are being given and our concerns is
that there approach to try and keep everyone happy is not how we would expect a forensic accountant to
behave. I do think this is the right place to share the 'bugs' we have found and how we have dealt with them,
which is why the report from Rod/Lesley checked by legal and Mark is important. My objective is to get Janet to
a place where she also wants the meeting to be cancelled. I am also going to mention the timing of the report
aligned with the funding and James' unhelpful comment to Jo about ' unfair convictions’. I will have to play this
meeting a bit by ear!

¢ Monday 3pm we have SS coming in to give us a preview of the messages they are going to give to James on
Tuesday. Susan is coming straight back from the airport to attend.

e Tuesday SS brief James 9 am COMMS will have reactive statements ready in case there is a leak

@ Wednesday Paula has a call with James at 8.45, which may become a f2f and possible with Alice depending on
how this is progressing

© Proactive COMMS to be produced for possible use before the MP meeting on the 8"

¢ Meeting on the 8" POL not invited. James, MPs, SS, Shoesmith, and JFSA present. James not expecting a
powerpoint presentation, but SS to talk the meeting through the issues which they have found.

e We think SS will present the 4 cases some of which will not be finished, but we are not sure yet. They will also
raise the issue of the 'bugs' which were outside the cases but which we disclosed to them.

Please let me know if you need anything else

Thanks
Alwen
