vy. 3 . 25 NOV 1999

POL00028542
POL00028542

-2201

Electronic memo

To Keith K Baines/POCL/POSTO:
Meagher/POCL/POSTO!
French/POSTOFFICE.
Brazear/POSTOFFICEC
Folkes/ITS/POSG/POSTOFFI
Seedall/POCL/POSTOFFICEC.
Pye/RM_Consulting/RM/POSTOFFICE:
Radka/POCL/POSTOFFICEt
McLaughlin/POSTOFFICE.
Henderson/POCL/POSTO!
Box/POCL/POSTOFFICE!
Holleran/POCL/POSTOFFICE.-

cc David X Smith/POCL/POST!
Miller/POCL/POSTOFFICE(
Pye/ITS/POSG/POSTOFFICE..
Harding/POCL/POSTOFFICE!
Cook/POCL/POSTOFFI
Houghton/POSTOFFICE_

Hard Copy To
Hard Copy cc

From Min Burdett/POCL/POSTOFFICE

Date 25/11/99 15:02

Subject Rollout 2000 Decision - Actions for next 10 days

All .

At yesterday's Delivery Meeting and subsequent discussions with Pathway, it was agreed to
undertake a number of additional activities to establish whether it is safe to progress with the
roll-out.

I have put together the attached list of joint POCL/Pathway meetings and events. If your name
is emboldened, I am assuming that you are responsible for the meeting/event from POCL's point
of view. This is a demanding set of activities - please do all you can to participate and deliver
by the end of next week.

Could those who were at yesterday's meeting (especially Dick Brazear who was taking such
copious notes) review the attachment and see whether there is anything missing. I will be
asking Pathway to do the same.

In addition, could:

Dave Pye arrange the meeting on the 2nd December to review the design. Also it looks as
though a POCL only pre-meet would be useful (please call me on Monday when you are back
from your course and I'll give you more info)

Martin Box discuss with Ruth Holleran what the appropriate documents are to give to Pathway
on the TIP design, and then sort out with John Cook whether an NDA or other restriction needs
to be put on Pathway

POL00028542
POL00028542

Andy Radka/Adele Henderson/Dave McLaughlin to determine who should be supporting Keith
Baines at the workshop on Tuesday

All let me know of any changes or issues hampering progress.

For information, I also attach the handout (with typo-dates corrected) given to Pathway at
yesterday's meeting. Together with Pathway's response (output from event 3), that should be
an adequate record of the meeting.

MeeteventendNov.doc —handout991124.doc

Min

POL00028542
POL00028542

© '

Version 0.1 Draft for Review
Roll-out 2000 Decision - Events & Meetings Up to 3“ December
Date Event or Meeting Location POCL Pathway Comments/Issues
1. 29/11 Produce response to POCL’s view of John Dicks
24 November criteria monitoring,
report
2,0 I 25/11 Mecting: Reference Data Review Old Street John Meagher Steve Muchow
Jeremy Folkes Dave Wilcox
Graeme Seedall John Wright
Phil Kennedy Stephan Robson
Nick Embling Duncan MacDonald
Dave Ireland Alison Peacock
Mike Walsh
Paul O’Gorman
3. 26/11 Written response to POCL demand Tony Oppenheim
position
4, I 26/11 Pathway Non-Disclosure agreements Dave Pye John Dicks
Graeme Seedall
Bruce Talmage
Martin Box
5. 26/11 POCL Non-Disclosure agreements Martin Box 22 John Cook to advise
6. 26/11 Agreement to short term Reference Andy Radka Steve Muchow
Data approach changes (including,
POCL Authorisation and Pathway
checking timescales)
7. I 29/11 Provision of Pathway Design Dave Pye John Dicks
Documentation: Graeme Secdall
e EPOSS end of day HLD Bruce Talmage
© Testing Strategy Martin Box
«° HLIP
© EPOSS additional reconciliation
HLD
8. I 29/11 Provision of TIP Functional Spec Martin Box John Dicks

Page I of 2

25" November 1999

Version 0.1 Draft for Review
Date Event or Meeting Location POCL Pathway Comments/Issues
9. W12 Meeting: review process and Chesterfield, No 1 Martin Box Richard Brunskill
10:00 procedures for Integrity Control Future Walk Bruce Talmage (others)
Graeme Scedall
Ann Clarke
Phil Tumock
David Stevenson
Julie Dart
Chris Paynter
Dave Pye
10. I 30/12 Meeting: workshop to agree the Greville St Keith Baines Tony Oppenheim Covering items 1, 2 and 3 of
1:30 criteria for continuing roll-out Conference room7 I (Adele Henderson for 408? I (others TBA) demand note
Graeme Seedall for 376?) ie
ML, I 2/122 Meeting: workshop to review design I TBA Dave Pye John Dicks Covering items 4 (plan
and identify gaps Martin Box (others) gaps) and 5 of demand note
Graeme Scedall
Bruce Talmage
: Min Burdett
12, I TBA Progress Help Desk additional SLAs Dave Miller Richard Christou Items 8 and 9 in demand
and checksteps in roll-out note
13, I 29/11 Provide summary of Auditor’s Dave Smith Ttem “9a” (i.c, the note at
position end)
14, I TBA Meeting: Reference Data Review Jeremy Folkes Steve Muchow
. Graeme Scedall Dave Wilcox
Phil Kennedy John Wright
Nick Embling Stephan Robson
Dave Ireland Duncan MacDonald
Mike Walsh Alison Peacock
Paul O'Gorman
15. I 3/12 Progress Review Greville StRoom7 I Keith Baines Tony Oppenheim Peter Copping on standby -
10:00 and room 4 for Min Burdett (others) Keith Baines to arrange
“breakout” Ruth Holleran?
Others to be determined
Page 2 of 2 25" November 1999

POL00028542
POL00028542

