POL00028544
POL00028544

i. 25 Nov 1999 :
C] Reference Data Review (Phase 2 Tactical)Meeting 2 2234, 25 November 148 Old St.

Reference Data Reviez (Phase 2 Tactical)
Meeting 2
25 Noventber 2.00p.m -5.30p.m 148 Old Street

OBJECTIVES:

¢ Each Problem Owner to present high level solutions
¢ Group to note prioritisation set by the Delivery Meeting.

ATTENDEES:
POCL: ICL Pathway
John Meagher ' Chair John Dicks
Phil Kennedy Reference Data John Wright
Nick Embling BSM Dave Wilcox Ref. Data Management
Graeme Seedall TMT John Pope
Jeremy Folkes Horizon I Stephan Robson Technical Design
Mike Walsh Secretary

: t
GENERAL STATEMENTS:

NE: To aid the avoidance of future Reference Data problems it was suggested t? it
a cross - programme Operational Reference Data review meeting be set up. NE
progress this on behalf of BSM

Status: Steering group has been established with the-fizst meeting to be held in
December, and the TOR for this forum has been issued for review and comment.

JM: At the POCL/Pathway meeting held on Wednesday 24'* November 1999
Criteria for Acceptance, it was agreed that further actions are requires to move
forward and Reference Data is a major factor for solution. There are four area’s
urgency which frames priorities of review group.

1. POCL Business Rules
2. Pathway assumptions in design of RMDC

Version 0.2 Page 1 of 8 01/12/99

POL00028544

POL00028544

Reference Data Review (Phase 2 Tactical)Meeting 2 25 November 148 Old St.

3&4 Authorisation of release to field and Process effects/side effects of this data.
JM: The TOR has been agreed and version 1.0 will be issued by next meeting..

REFERENCE DATA PROBLEMS

¢ Problems taken from Pathway document ‘Reference Data End to End Workshop Briefing’
(CR/REP/016). :

© These problems will be referenced as they are in the Pathway document and unless there
are actions specifically requesting further detail, the problem description shall be as it
appears in that document.

° It was agreed that the Problem Owners will provide an update of actions at each
working group meeting.

Quality

21 Original Quality

Owners: Phil Kennedy/ David Wilcox
* Actions for ‘Original Quality’ problem:

1. In order that the group can subsequently asses the overall risk and priority
of the problem further information was required.

DW to provide quantification of incidence of the problem with:
* the frequency of occurrence of the problem
concrete examples of the problem
¢ the material effect to Pathway operations
PK to assist DW in fulfilling the action. Action: Discharged
PK Determine history of incidents and advise DW
PK Formally agree way forward.

2. PK and NE to discuss the current method of feeding the Incident
Management procedure via PinICLs’ and assess whether it is
effective for Reference Data problems.

__Agreed: Pathway should continue sending PinICL’s for the time
being, but that this should be examined in context of overall Incident

Management, and at the very least retrospective reporting on
Incidents should be included so that POCL can monitor and

maintain Incident statistics

Version 0.2 : Page 2 of 8 01/12/99

POL00028544
POL00028544
.

ry

@ Reference Data Review (Phase 2 Tactical)Meeting 2 25 November 148 Old St.

Action: Immediate aspects discharged, but action to remain open.

3. DW and NE to review the cross domain problem management .
process to assess whether it is operating effectively for problems

raised within RDS and RDMC. Action: Carried Forward
DW and NE Check cross domain Problem Manager Processes and
report on situation.

4. PK to provide a CSR business rules document. Action: Discharged

PK to provide by 26/11/99, 15 Tranche information for Business
Rules Document.

2.2 Verification process quality
Owners: Phil Kennedy/ David Wilcox
¢ Actions for ‘Process Quality’ problem:

1. It was agreed that all actions for in this problem were covered in
section 2.1 above.

23 Non-core Items Quality

Owners: Phil Kennedy/ David Wilcox

Tt was agreed that this was a feature of the system but can bea problem if HFSO’'s do not
follow the correct procedure...

¢ Actions for the ‘Non-core items quality’ problem:

1 (58) to investigate HFSO procedures around non-core products not My
See bb - being present at newly migrated outlets. Action: Discharged

2. NE to investigate the possibilities of the NBSC being able to further
mitigate the problem, by ensuring that an incident matrix is in place
for mapping errors not picked up by the HFSO.

Agreed: this action is included in 2.1.2
NE Check that the diagnostics for the incident management matrix

is as it should be
3. AP to investigate the possibilities of the HSH being able to further
mitigate the problem. Action: Discharged
Volumes
3.1 Volume of Change

Owners: Nick Embling / Steve Muchow

Version 0.2 Page 3 of 8 01/12/99

POL00028544

POL00028544

Reference Data Review (Phase 2 Tactical)Meeting 2 25 November 148 Old St.

* Actions for the Volume of Change’ problem:

1. It was recognised that Pathway need from the provision of
predictive information as to any anticipated changes to Network or
Business data. SM to discuss with Andy Radka the possibility of
providing updated predictive information.

Action: Carried Forward

3.2 Non-Core Products

Owners: Nick Embling/ Duncan MacDonald
Actions for the ‘Non-core items volume’ problem:

1. NE to investigate the possibility of providing predictive information
as to volumes of non-core product changes. It is acknowledged that
the longer term aspects of this action will fall into the ‘Strategic’
phase of this review. Action: Carried Forward

2. DM to provide an indication as to when the volumes of non-core
product changes will become a major risk for Pathway.

Action: Carried Forward

3. PK to investigate the ability of POCL RDS to send more files per
day, than the current limit of 36.

PK Propose a Change Request for altering the naming convention

3.3 “No change” changes

Owners: Phil Kennedy/ Duncan MacDonald
* Actions for the “’No change” changes’ problem:

1. PK and DM to work together to provide possible solutions for this.
problem.

Action: Carried Forward

PK Arrange meeting between TIP, RDS & Pwy to come up witha
solution

2. DM to quantify the risk to Pathway operations if the problem is not
mitigated. Action: Carried Forward

JM to arrange a meeting between SR and someone from POCL to
establish/ explain constraints, including 3.3.2 and 3.2.2

3.4 National Roll-Out

Owners: No POCL owner/ Duncan MacDonald

Version 0.2 ; Page 4 of 8 01/12/99

POL00028544

POL00028544

Reference Data Review (Phase 2 Tactical)Meeting 2 25 November 148 Old St.

It was noted that this is a problem which Pathway are addressing within their own domain.
* Actions for the ‘National Rollout’ problem:

1. DM to keep the group informed on progress of the PWY actions (CP
2249) already in place to progress the problem. Action: Discharged

3.5 Migration Products

Owners: Phil Kennedy/ Duncan MacDonald
* Actions for the ‘Migration Products’ problem:

1. PK to discuss the problem around the volumes of charges with Geoff
Darby, and recommend a potential solution which will limit the

numbers of changes. Action: Carried Forward
2. DM to quantify the risk to Pathway operations if the problem is not
mitigated. Action: Discharged
3. SR Pathway’s corffractual pesition béing clafified’So that a proposal
emp wes va ified So
3.6 Pathway performance sundries

It was noted that this is a problem which Pathway are addressing within their own domain.
. Owners:- I No POCLowner/ Duncan MacDonald

¢ Actions: :
1. DM to keep the group informed on progress of the PWY actions (CP
2169 plus others to be raised if necessary) already in place to
progress these problems. Action: Carried Forward
Timings
41 Future Dating

Owners: Phil Kennedy/ David Wilcox

¢ Actions for the oo mahire problem:

1. POG and DW'to investigate the current process and propose a
potentialSolution. — Action: Carried Forward

Version 0.2 Page 5 of 8 01/12/99

POL00028544

POL00028544

I ® Reference Data Review (Phase 2 Tactical)Meeting 2 25 November 148 Old St.

Procedural

5.1 Accommodation of adequate preparation time

Owners: Phil Kennedy / David Wilcox

It was recognised that the elimination of the ‘Future Dating’ problem and an improvement to
the ‘Original Quality’ problem will go a long way towards mitigating the issues faced due to
inadequate preparation time.

¢ Action to produce the required Business Rules document:

It was agreed that in order for Pathway to effectively complete its validation of Reference
Data a greater level of understanding of the Business Rules employed by POCL was
required.

1. DW to provide details of information required from PONU, with
every reference data change request, to allow Pathway to carry out
appropriate validation. Action: Discharged

is)

. DW and PK to agree the requirements of a Business Rules document
which provides a common understanding of E2E Reference Data
business rules. Action: Discharged

3. DW to provide design assumptions document.

4, DW Additional EPOSS Reconciliation material as per the (I Not (onede,

Acceptance Resolution Timetable available by Mid Jan 2000 recoded -
5.2 Co-ordination with Rollout tothe
Owners: No POCL owner/ David Wilcox
DW stated that after a conversation with the Network Change Authorisation group the
problent had been successfully mitigated.
e Actions:
1. DW to monitor the problem and inform the group if it re-appears. Gs

-
Action: Carried Forward ~ byss Uh.

53 Sign-off
Owners for the ‘Sign off/ Authorisation’ problem: I Nick Embling/ John Wright
¢ Actions to agree a ‘Sign Off’ process:

1. DW to investigate the production of an analysis tool whereby

Pathway are able to demonstrate the consequences, in the outlets, of wk £

each and all Reference Data changes. Action: Carried Forward 7 ©

TeX -

2. NE and JW to propose solutions for a method of ensuring that
Sur Reference Data changes which arrive at the outlet, have the effects
Mx eee —p intended, and only those intended, by POCL. To ensure thata
common understanding exists of:

7

Version 0.2 Page 6 of 8 01/12/99

POL00028544
POL00028544

@ Reference Data Review (Phase 2 Tactical)Meeting 2 25 November 148 Old St.

° who can sign off changes
¢ who can validate changes

¢ the significance of those actions in relation to the process and
to contractual responsibilities and liabilities.

: Action: Carried Forward
3. JW Produce overall procedure toxlarify asto the purposeand,
scope of tis, and eépy to rasta vexing
lace by mid Jap’2000

POCL CONCERNS

Interface Agreements,

Owners: Nick Embling/ Steve Muchow .
Actions to ensure the specification Pathway document, ref: CS/PRD/058 is signed

off: aycteenk
¢ SM to ensure that the interface deeument is completed and re-
introduced into active debate with BSM as soon as possible, i.e.
brokered and agreed prior to submission for acceptance.

Action: Carried Forward

POCL concerns raised in the Terms of Reference - section 2

1. There is a need to formalise the process whereby data issues at the counter are
tracked back to RDS and progress reported.
Owners: Phil Kennedy/ No Pathway owner

1. PK and NE to progress internally as it was recognised that Pathway
have no input into this problem. Action: Carried Forward

2. We do not have agreed OBC lead times.
Agreed: covered in interface agreement
Owners: Nick Embling/John Wright

This will subsumed into Pathway problem 5.3

A.0.B
¢ Actions will be transferred to a plan for the next meeting

© The 3-4 areas of priorities will remain, no more at this stage

Version 0.2 Page 7 of 8 . 01/12/99

POL00028544
POL00028544

Q

e
® Reference Data Review (Phase 2 Tactical)Meeting 2 . 25 November 148 Old St.

PLANS FOR FUTURE MEETINGS:

* It was agreed that the steering group (or a cut down group) would meet weekly
over the next five weeks. The table below shows the high level objectives for each

meeting.

¢ Itis anticipated that the group will meet on either Tuesday or Thursday each
week. .

meeting date Objectives for the Meeting

3. w/c 29/11/99 I » review a the developed ‘high payback’ solutions and
agree the way forward

4 w/c 06/12/99 I « review a the developed ‘medium/ low payback’
solutions and agree the way forward

5. w/c 13/12/99 I « monitor progress and issues

w/e 20/12/99 I « review position as to solution progress and status of
the problems

Next Meeting : 2"4 December 1999 09:30 - 12:00 at Feltham Conference Room 3 (next
to restaurant)

i Version 0.2 Page 8 of 8 01/12/99

