POL00381573

POL00381573
From: Alwen Lyons[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=ALWEN.LYONS648EE5C4-F 2A8-40E2-9F55-
1B9B1E4F6D52]
Sent: Thur 22/08/2013 5:51:19 PM (UTC)

To: Paula Vennel
Subject: Re: Alice meeting Will Gibson

Two issues for me Paula

Sparrow, how we are progressing working with JFSA, SS etc see below

And RMH changes, as Alice is due to come off the RMH Board on about the 10th September and it would be
good if she cloud ask Will how he thinks it will work, to see if his view is the same as the lawyers and RMG

Sparrow

Working with JFSA and SS on the mediation process

BUs have received a copy of the proposed mediation process and had input

TOR for working group agreed with JFSA, SS and POL (bar one small point)

First draft of candidate brief for Independent Chair prepared

Suggestions for candidates from BIS, JA and SS

Process for improvements in support through the branch user forum, TOR almost complete
Subpostmasters to be offered support to put their cases together

Training day for this support on the Sth September

Review of criminal cases almost complete, 9 cases so far where we have disclosed the Second Sight interim
report to the defence, no appeals lodged to date

Secondly on Sparrow is the independent review piece and I wondered if you could add in the points in the TOR
that you were amending Paula

Thanks
Alwen

Alwen Lyons

On 22 Aug 2013, at 10:52, "Paula Vennells" <

Hello

Alice has a meeting with Will Gibson next Tuesday. Could you by close of play today drop me a few
bullet points of any updates or issues Alice may need to know about.

Thanks
POL00381573
POL00381573

Paula
