POL00098789
POL00098789

Message

From: Paula Vennells

on behalf of — Paula Vennells

Sent: 28/06/2013 13

To: Alice Perkins CI

cc: Alwen Lyons I

Subject: Fwd: next steps on Horizon issues - update

Alice hi. I do hope your Friday is good. The MF visit was useful - will update you orally next week. (Martin pls add to the

list - thx.)

You will see below Alwen's proposed next steps. It covers all the ground at present. We may update following today's
phone call with SS in an hour; and certainly will update post Alwen's meeting with Janet on Monday.

Alwen and I are staying close (two calls already today) and I'm expecting an update later this pm. So no need to bother

you today.

BW Paula

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

From: Alwen Lyons ¢_
Date: 28 June 2013 13
To: Paula Vennells 7
Subject: next steps

Paula
.

<!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->Rod Ismay and Lesley working the detail of the 2 bugs, to
understand them and then get them into language that is clear and can be communicated
<!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->Mark is putting in place expert external comms resource to be
dedicated to this issue from Monday ( this will be from an external agency which he trusts
<!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->We have a call with SS this afternoon and we will run through
the individual cases to see how far they will have got by next Tuesday’s briefing with James and
the meeting date on the 8", this will inform my conversation with Janet on Monday

<!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->1 am going to spend time with Janet at 9.00 on Monday
morning, she says she can give me as long as it takes. My approach will be try to get to
understand the status of the review and the risk to James and us of an incomplete interim
report. I will share the fact that SS are not using all the evidence they are being given and our
concerns is that there approach to try and keep everyone happy is not how we would expect a
forensic accountant to behave. I do think this is the right place to share the ‘bugs’ we have
found and how we have dealt with them, which is why the report from Rod/Lesley checked by
legal and Mark is important. My objective is to get Janet to a place where she also wants the
meeting to be cancelled. I am also going to mention the timing of the report aligned with the
funding and James’ unhelpful comment to Jo about ‘ unfair convictions’. I will have to play this
meeting a bit by ear!

<!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->Monday 3pm we have SS coming in to give us a preview of the
messages they are going to give to James on Tuesday. Susan is coming straight back from the
airport to attend.

<!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->Tuesday SS brief James 9 am COMMS will have reactive
statements ready in case there is a leak

POL-0098372
POL00098789
POL00098789

e  <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->Wednesday Paula has a call with James at 8.45, which may
become a f2f and possible with Alice depending on how this is progressing

e  <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->Proactive COMMS to be produced for possible use before the
MP meeting on the 8"

°  <!--[if IsupportLists]--><![endif]-->Meeting on the 8" POL not invited. James, MPs, SS,
Shoesmith, and JFSA present. James not expecting a powerpoint presentation, but SS to talk the
meeting through the issues which they have found.

e = <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->We think SS will present the 4 cases some of which will not be
finished, but we are not sure yet. They will also raise the issue of the ‘bugs’ which were outside
the cases but which we disclosed to them.

Please let me know if you need anything else

Thanks
Alwen

POL-0098372
