POL00039748
POL00039748

MEMORANDUM

To Sue Smith

Trevor Rollason
Clare Dryhurst
Kate Doyle

John Breedon
Douglas Craik
Liz Moran

Sue Harding
Dave McLaughlin

Kathryn Cook
January 1999

From
Date

Mike Granville
Bruce McNiven
John Main

Copy

Subject Horizon Training Competency and Conformance

Most of you have been involved in the developing debate within the business
about concerns over the entry level of competency of those attending Horizon
Training events ie. that it may be low enough to prejudice their ability to
make the most of ICL’s training. Some of you are also involved in the work
that the Service Management Team are doing to improve conformance across
the network.

Bruce McNiven has asked that we tackle these two issues together and
develop ’both a better understanding of the gaps between required
competency and conformance and that which the business will require in the
future and to develop a high level action plan to address these gaps. lam
therefore trying to get together urgently those people who can help us to
address this and I hope that you would be happy to be involved in this.

Terms of reference are'still being finalised (I hope to agree a final version with
Bruce this week) but I think the attached draft captures most of the key things
we'll need to address (albeit that I have flagged up to Bruce'that I don’t think
that we could manage any deployment activities through this group and that
if the business did decide that there were any large scale deployment
activities to take place, a separate project team would need to be established).

H:\data\ team\kathryn\kc152.doc

POL00039748

POL00039748

This work is fairly urgent as you would expect as Horizon roll out dates are
fast approaching. I’d like if possible to get us together by the end of January

“for a workshop to address the following issues:

¢ to gain a common understanding of the projects terms of reference and
required outputs

to identify the work that has already been done (by meeting participants
and others) on this area and to share the key outputs of that work

to agree what needs to be done to take the project forward; identifying
individual actions/ responsibilities as appropriate.

I will get Anna Ward to call you all shortly with some dates for this meeting.
In the meantime, it would be helpful if you could:

¢ confirm that you are willing to participate in this workshop (if you can’t
and you feel that you can send an empowered substitute then please let me
know) .

¢ nominate anyone I have left off the list who has either an interest in this’
area or who has completed work that we need to take into account

¢ send to me any relevant papers/correspondence etc. that you think would
help shape the agenda for the workshop.

Many thanks

KFCOOK

H:\data\ team\kathryn\ke152.doc

1

