POL00374441
POL00374441

Message

From: Gayle A Peacoc!

Sent: 11/06/2014 13:40:49

To: Kevin Gilliland [

cc: Angela Van-Den- .

Subject: Submission of Branch Support Programme for Transformation Committee

Attachments: Branch Support Slide June 2014 final.pptx; Transformation Committee June 2014 narrative.docx

Hi Kevin

Please find attached the revised Branch Support slide for the Transformation Committee on the 19" June. It’s the slide
we went through at the Steering Group with some minor changes following the feedback. I’ve also drafted a paper to
give you more detail and background regarding specific points on the slide, should you need it. Please let me know
whether this is too much or too little. I’m conscious you probably get loads of these so apologies if it isn’t what you’re
looking for.

Angela and I went through it with Michael Brown yesterday and the three key points he is intending to call out about the
Programme next week are:

© Quality measure for the Programme — we will be tracking specific questions from the Agent Engagement Survey
and using that along with the satisfaction with training as our quality measures

¢ Overlap with Business Transformation — we are both aligned as Programmes with Angela being on the Steering
Group and myself being part of the SME group. There appears that there will be some overlap with what the
consultancy team want to do, in so much that we have already reviewed a lot of processes they may want to
look at. The detail as to how Business Transformation will approach this has been pretty vague so far so we will
be working with them over the next couple of weeks to really understand what will be required and how this
affects both business cases. There is also a Programme review going on at the moment and I believe the criteria
for assessing current Programmes will be with Alison Thompson this evening which will be shared wider next
week.

e CRM tools — we are aligned in network about how we want to approach this (myself, Amanda and lan) and met
with IT yesterday to confirm this and what support we need from them. IT are working out how they piece
together all of the other activity that is going on within the wider business.

Michael is drafting some wording around the above, so once I have that I will of course share that with you.
The slide needs to be in tomorrow lunchtime so I will share this version with Michael if you are happy with it.
If you need any more information or have any questions, please don’t hesitate to ask.

Thanks

Gayle

Gayle Peacock I Branch Support Programme

c/o Branch Standards Team, 2% Floor, The Markets, 6-16 New York Street, Leeds, LS2 7DZ

POL00374441
POL00374441
