1

Post Office Ltd - Confidential

POL00423377

POL00423377

Date: 8 September 2016

Risk and Compliance Committee (R&CC)

Venue: Boardroom, Finsbury Dials

Reference: R&CC September

Time: 13:00 - 16:00

Jonathan Cormack

Talent

Members:
Jane MacLeod (JM) General Counsel Chair
Alistair Cameron (AC) Chief Finance Officer Member
David Hussey (DH) Transformation Director Member
Martin George (MG) Commercial Director Member
Kevin Gilliland (KG) Network and Sales Director Member
Nick Kennett (NK) Financial Services Director Member
Paula Vennells (PV) Chief Executive Member
Attendees:

Director, Learning, Resourcing and I On behalf of

Group People Director

Victoria Moss

Deputy Company Secretary

On behalf of Company
Secretary

Mike Morley-Fletcher (MMF)

Head of Risk and Assurance

Report (Papers 6 & 7)

Georgina Blair (GB)

Risk Business Partner

Secretariat

Julie George (JG)
Rob Houghton (RH)

Chief Information Security Officer
Chief Information Officer

Report (Paper 2)
Report (Paper 2)

Jonathan Hill (JH)

Head of Risk, Banking Regulation
and Strategy

Report (Paper 3)

Owen Woodley (OW)

Sales Director, Network and Sales

Report (Paper 3)

Tom Moran (TM)

General Manager, Network

Report (Paper 11)

Apologies:

Alwen Lyons Company Secretary Member
Neil Hayward Group People Director Member
Jon Waples Business Continuity Manager Report

The Chair declared the committee quorate and opened the meeting.

JM noted that the meeting agenda was full, and that the key things for the Committee to focus on
were the papers going to ARC, including in particular the Cyber Update, FS Deep Dive paper and
Financial Crime papers, and the three policies put forward for approval.

The Committee agreed the minutes of the previous meeting and reviewed the open actions.

AP 1742 (Vulnerable customers) - MG explained that the Vulnerable Customer policy had been
updated after the last RCC. The aim was to develop a practical approach to dealing with Vulnerable
Customers, firstly ensuring we meet legal requirements, before progressing for more. Actions were
being developed. JH noted that the FCA and BBA (British Bankers’ Association) had recently released
an update on this topic.

AP 1740 (Compliance with the Corporate Governance Code) - JM updated the Committee on
a recent discussion with Carla Stent, ARC chair, in which she agreed that as the statement about
compliance with the Code had been downgraded in the Annual Report it was not necessary at this
stage to undertake a gap analysis with the Code and any review would be deferred until at least Q3
in 2017.

AP 1738 (Quarterly Lead Team Risk Reviews) - JM noted Committee members had been
requested to ensure risk was discussed at least quarterly at their lead team meetings.

Risk and Compliance Committee minutes 8 September 2016 v.02
POL00423377
POL00423377

2

Post Office Ltd - Confidential

AP 1737 (Brexit Risk) - MMF explained that the impact of the Brexit vote had been incorporated
into individual risks in the Group Risk Profile and that an External Affairs Steering Group had been
set up.

AP 1726 (GE Objectives) - MMF explained that we were still awaiting agreement of the TOM,

before including a standard reference to risk and control in GE members job descriptions. JC agreed
to work with MMF on this.

AP 1732 (Vetting policy) - JC noted that NH had not given it final approval because the budget
and process for implementing the improvements needed for compliance with the policy had not yet
been defined. NK noted that the policy was a requirement under the Banking Framework Agreement.
JC said that he was confident that the necessary improvements would be implemented by January
2017, however he noted that approval of the policy was important.

AP 1733 (Disaster Recovering policy) - AC explained that he had requested for the policy to be
revised and was waiting for an updated version.

JG and RH joined the meeting to present paper 2.

JG summarised the key points of paper 2, explaining that although a framework of controls
was in place to mitigate cyber security risks further investment would be required to reduce
the risk further, including an enterprise wide Security Operations Centre (SOC) and
technological monitoring and detection improvements. The Committee noted that Deloitte
had recently performed assurance work over cyber security implementation, and although
the report had not been finalised the draft conclusions suggested the current IT framework
did not appropriately mitigate cyber security risk. It was agreed that there was a need to
raise the awareness and understanding of IT security issues in order to inform business
decision making. The Committee agreed the actions needed to bring the cyber security risk
back within appetite should be articulated and a plan covering the necessary improvements

in people, process and systems should be included in the paper presented to ARC.(Action
1746)

JG and RH left the ane

OW joined the meeting

JH summarised the key points of paper 3, noting at ARC it would be preceded by a paper
from POMS and a paper from the Bank of Ireland (Bol), and that this paper was to
demonstrate to the ARC that POL was addressing the concerns of its two Principals. The
Committee requested that the paper be reformatted in the appropriate board paper format.
JH explained that Bol’s top two concerns were pre-recruitment vetting and performance
management and monitoring. Action was being taken to implement improvements in the
vetting process (see Action 1732). There were currently gaps around the monitoring of
transactional sales of Over 50s life insurance, travel insurance and savings products made in
the wider branch network (i.e. not by Financial or Mortgage Specialists, or Customer
Relationship Managers) but proposals had been made to instigate cost-effective monitoring
activities. OW noted that it was necessary to have a clear whistleblowing process available
to branches selling financial services. The Committee noted that the extent of monitoring

required was directly linked to the extent to which financial services were sold over the
branch network.

The Committee discussed repeated instances where branches have been located with
retailers who are also appointed representatives (ARs) of other financial services firms or
where retailers have changed their regulatory status after taking on a branch. Controls
have been recommended to prevent further instances and there are currently eight branches
affected. KG explained that there was a temporary solution in place in five branches, and
three remained to be resolved. The Committee requested that NK, KG and JM find a
solution for the three remaining branches before 28 Sept.(Action 1747)

Risk and Compliance Committee minutes 8 September 2016 v.02

POL00423377
POL00423377

I

Post Office Ltd - Confidential

OW left the eee

PH joined the meeting

(b) BCV lessons learned

AC gave a verbal update on the current status of the lessons learned exercise from the BCV
(‘batch control vouchers’) fraud, noting that the issue would be discussed in the Group
Executive (GE) meeting on Monday 12 September. Two further attempts to obtain cash via
this method had been made since monitoring started, but these had been successfully
rebuffed. An action plan was being finalised with the help of Deana Herley, Senior
Assurance Manager and a paper would be produced for ARC.

The Committee discussed the issue of product fraud and noted that agents’ losses are
currently increasing. The Committee requested that a list of frauds be presented at each
RCC meeting.(Action 1748)

PH left the meeting

(a) AML update

JM updated the Committee on progress with the HMRC Regulatory Activity project, detailed

in paper 4. The Thistle risk assessment was running late but a draft report on residual risk

was expected to be presented next week, and this information would be included in the ARC

paper.

Branch premises registration with HMRC was now up to date but HRMC was still to confirm
whether it would be imposing any fines. The Committee discussed the registration process,
noting that it currently involved teams from three business areas (Network, Financial
Services and the Financial Crime team in Corporate Services). KG offered to take over the
entire process within Network, and the Committee requested that the process be reviewed
and simplified.(Action 1749)

MMF updated the Committee on audit activity since the last meeting, referring to paper 5.
The Committee discussed the function of Post Implementation Reviews (PIRs), noting that
there was undoubted value in reviewing lessons learned. The Committee also noted that
some PIRs were taking place so long after the event that the key people involved in the
project had left the business.

JM and DH proposed that they would collate findings from relevant BTA and audit work to
date for the next RCC meeting, in order for RCC to consider the extent to which the business
had taken on board such lessons and recommendations.(Action 1750)

PV asked AC to update the Committee on work on the Financial Controls Framework. AC
confirmed that a paper will be going to ARC. There are nine workstreams all being
progressed and the common issue that was being highlighted as making improvements
difficult was the fragmented nature of POL’s data holding system.

Risk and Compliance Committee minutes 8 September 2016 v.02
POL00423377
POL00423377

4

Post Office Ltd - Confidential

MMF updated the Committee on progress against the risk framework project plan (paper 6,
appendix 1) and emphasised the important of the support of the Committee in making the
risk register work in their own business areas. In particular it was necessary to ensure that
the risk registers were linked to the top risks. The Committee agreed that a yearly risk
workshop in each business area would be helpful in achieving this aim.

The Committee discussed the collection and presentation of risk incidents. The Committee
queried whether too much was being asked of the business in the collection of data in
general in light of other work priorities. The Committee recommended a wider GE
discussion on prioritisation. Referring specifically to the collection of risk incidents, GB
explained that successful collection of risk incidents occurred where there are existing data
streams (e.g. IT incident reporting, property incident reporting) and so the collection of
those incidents posed no extra demands on the business. In other areas where no data was
collected on incidents it was necessary to consider whether a process should be in place, or
whether the incident data was of no value and should not be collected. JM noted that the
incident reporting process was not yet fully functional, but the aim was for it to be
developed so it would provide information to help identify control breaches.

MMF summarised the changes in the Group Risk Profile presented in paper 7 which had
occurred in the six months since the Committee last reviewed the business’s risk profile,
and asked the each member of the Committee to look at the key further actions listed
against their risks and let him know post-RCC if they had any further amendments.

The Committee discussed the number of red risks and the process by which risks were
categorised (thus resulting in 18 red risks). The Committee noted that consolidation of
some risks may hide specific risks that needed further actions and some risks may reduce in
evaluation significantly over the next few months (e.g. 1) Pension Costs, 4) Third Party
Relationship Management, 7) Industrial Relations). The Committee agreed that it was
necessary to view the risk profile as a whole and consider the impacts of risks to the whole
organisation, and that the best way to do this would be in a GE discussion. The Committee
requested that a GE session to discuss the Group Risk Profile be held before the November
ARC meeting.(Action 1751)

JM gave a brief update on the Business Continuity and Crisis Management Project,
explaining that Jon Waples, Business Continuity Manager was unwell. The Committee
requested an update at the next RCC meeting on progress of Business Impact Assessment
plans as compared with the position that was shared with the Committee last
October.(Action 1752)

The Committee discussed the three policies put forward for approval. NK requested some
amendments to the Treasury Policy, and AC agreed to follow this up with NK.(Action 1753)
The Committee approved the Investigations Policy and the Physical Security Policy.

TM joined the meeting.

JM explained that Carla Stent, ARC Chair, was due to brief the Board about Property

Compliance, so an update would be going to ARC. TM updated the Committee on progress

in managing risks in property compliance, noting that significant progress had been made
Risk and Compliance Committee minutes 8 September 2016 v.02

POL00423377
POL00423377

5

Post Office Ltd - Confidential

over the past five months, and that improvements in reducing the risk profile in this area
were on track. The Committee agreed that going forward reports on Property Compliance
should go to the Health and Safety Committee, and that the RCC should get reports from
the Health and Safety Committee.(Action 1754)

TM left the meeting.

The Committee briefly discussed the Horizon scanning paper (paper 10) and JH explained
that the work that they are currently doing with POMS and the Bank of Ireland was helping
them to prepare for the Senior Managers’ Regime. The Committee suggested that the
proposal for workers on boards should be considered for the next paper.(Action 1755)

JM explained that it had not been possible to write a paper on Contract Management in time
for the Committee meeting as insufficient information on the contracts had been received.
The Committee noted that it was important to capture contractual obligations, and to make
sure that this was recorded so it was not lost if people moved roles or left the business.

The following papers were noted:

Paper 13 - Agents Remuneration lessons learned
Paper 14 - Horizon outage lessons learned
Paper 15 - Items scheduled for the next RCC
Paper 16 - POMS RCC minutes

Paper 17 - ARC agenda

Next Meeting - 3 November 2016 Room 1.19 Wakefield 13.00 - 16.00

Risk and Compliance Committee minutes 8 September 2016 v.02
