POLO0099056

POL00099056
Message
From: LesleyJSewelly GRO _
on behalf of ¢. oe
Sent: 07/07/2013 08:
To: Paula Vennells!
cc: Martin Edward: Alwen Lyons
Subject: Re: Proposed way forward
Paula

Just a couple of thoughts.
If we state that we will review the cases since Separation, that implies that there are material findings in the SS
review and leaves us open to challenge against all cases. It may be better to offer in the spirit of the review and how we

have listened to those who have been affected, and how we want to change our business.

This is the delicate line we are balancing and from memory Susan quoted more that 500 cases in the last 10 years. It
may be an option to allow SPMRs to come forward to request a review.

I agree on the points around the working group and user group. A clear ToR for the WG will ensure that that is closed
down whilst we start to establish the User Group. We also need to bring Kevin in on our thinking and how this will work

with/alongside the engagement we already have with the NFSP.

Lesley

Sent from my iPad

On 6 Jul 2013, at 22:46, "Paula Vennells":. > wrote:

Hi, thank you for the inputs today. Susan I need your thoughts on the note below especially 1) and 2)
please and the questions at the end of the mail.

I think we have the following which is a variant:

1) a working party over the next three/four months. This comprises PO working collaboratively with the
JFSA and does three things:

*. Firstly explores the SS (8) themes for improvement (can we get less than 8?) and agrees how they
can be implemented.

* Secondly, looks at the remaining past cases with JFSA (and MPs if they wish) to see if either further
themes or new evidence emerge.

*. Thirdly, our external lawyers review all prosecutions in the past 12/18 months since PO has been
independent of RM, in the light of the SS findings. The JFSA/PO working group reviews the findings.
[Why would they not review all cases of false accounting, eg., over the last 5-10 years, especially where
the amounts have been 'small'? I assume ‘large' amounts would be less likely to get away with saying
they were muddle-headed and not helped? But could we review all? It is the false accounting charge JA
was most concerned about.]

© Does the working party update JA in the autumn?

POL-0098639
POLO0099056

POLO0099056

2) setting up of a review (chaired by PB/MO'C type) again via joint working between PO and JFSA, to
determine how an independent safety net might be introduced ie., a commitment to an independent
adjudicator or (non-statutory) ombudsman and the clear intention to agree scope and ToR.

3) the future introduction of an ongoing branch user group, once the working party has completed it's
task. This will ensure ongoing independent involvement of Spmrs/(inc JFSA if they would like) to ensure
the business listens to and acts upon issues as they arise; and as importantly, consults users on future
systems planning and changes.

[4) a statement that although the system has been proved to have no systemic issues, and our training,
support processes and helplines have worked for most of the 50-60000 colleagues over the past decade,
we are nonetheless genuinely sorry that some of our Spmrs, who were struggling did not feel we offered
them sufficient help and support when they needed it. And that we are grateful to JFSA and JA for
highlighting the issues. Many are historic and already improved but we are always open to new ways to
improve how we do business to ensure the PO stays as trusted and effective in its communities as it ever
was.]

Last thought: if we can draft this into something I could send to Alan Bates ‘in confidence’, it would get
us to a better place in agreeing the press statement and way through with JA on Monday. Could Martin
try and corral views into a draft by Sunday early pm? The more I speak with him the better I feel it will
be.

Susan, would we ever ask the lawyers to consider reviewing past prosecutions? Is that what we are
talking about in 1) above but simply not using the terms? If not, why would it be different? Of our 500
prosecutions, how many are false accounting? (For clarity these are open questions - just want to know
the answers, not an indication that I want us to do so.)

Thanks, Paula

Sent from my iPad

On 6 Jul 2013, at 21:08, "Martin Edwards" E wrote:

Hmm, the boundaries between these groups are getting quite blurred and confusing (at
least in my mind!).

I thought the focus of the working group involving the JFSA would be primarily thematic
(i.e. the 8 or so themes which emerged from the SS process) - rather than focussing on
resolving specific cases, which we would pick up through the seperate 1:1 briefings with
MPs. The description below appears to shift it more towards the latter. Perhaps this is
an academic distinction which we can't sustain in practice, but it certainly feels like safer
territory to have the JFSA focussing on themes to do with training and support (which
would then morph into the branch user forum) rather than individual cases...

Or have I misunderstood?

We also need to think about how the review of past cases by our external lawyers plays
into the messaging (if at all). Certainly not something we would put in our proactive
media statement I would have thought, but would we refer to this in meetings as an

avenue if pushed by MPs or the JFSA?

Martin

POL-0098639
POLO0099056
POL00099056

Martin Edwards

Chief of Staff to the Chief Executive
Post Office

GRO I

On 6 Jul 2013, at 18:18, "Mark R Davies SRO “} wrote:
I think that is the working group (number 2 below).
Sent from my iPad

On 6 Jul 2013, at 17:53, “Alwen Lyon:
wrote:

I think the only thing that is missing from James’ agenda
maybe not Alan's is what we do about past cases to
scorch the suggestion os unfair convictions

Thanks
Alwen

Alwen Lyons
Company Secretary

Sent from Blackberry

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: Saturday, July 06, 2013 04:46 PM

To: Paula Vennells

Cc: Martin Edwards; Mark R Davies; Lesley J Sewell;
Susan Crichton; Alwen Lyons; Theresa Iles
Subject: Re: Proposed way forward

Hi Paula

I think this points to the need for our package of
measures to include two and possibly three new
initiatives:

1. A Branch User Forum - for existing users to share
views, discuss issues, examine processes etc.. Chaired
by Exco and reporting to Exco. But this doesn't cover
historic issues (ie the JFSA and MP cases) so we could
also have (2)

2. Aworking party, to use Alan's phrase, to complete
the MP and JFSA cases. This could "take over" the
Second Sight review (perhaps involving them but
perhaps not as they have effectively "cleared" Horizon,
the remit of their inquiry).This would involve the JFSA
and us working collaboratively on the remaining cases.
We might wish to include an external party in this too (a
PWC?). This is the area of greatest risk - looking back at

POL-0098639
POLO0099056
POL00099056

historic cases which have gone through the courts. But
it is also completing the job we asked SS to do.

3. A review by a Mike o Connor or Patrick Burns figure
to consider potential independent levers which could be
developed to give SPMRs a means of independent
adjudication or (non statutory) ombudsman.

This package, it feels to me, covers all bases. It looks
ahead to fix internal issues and create independent
balancing view, but it also completes the review and has
the potential for doing so with SS playing a different, or
no, role.

It is also a compelling package for media, which handled
carefully, could contain the story.

Grateful for views.

Mark

Sent from my iPad

On 6 Jul 2013, at 10:35, "Paula Vennells"
f wrote:

FYI and for any thoughts pls
Paula
Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: Paula Vennells

Date: 6 July 2013
10:35:03 BST
To: Al:

Subject: Ri Proposed
way forward

Alan, thank you for the
note. Yes, I thought the
meeting with James
was positive too. My
main concern is still
how we manage the
publicity, to avoid - as
you said - it ‘going
ballistic’.

POL-0098639
We had a useful
conversation rea
statement from James
with quotes from you
and me, or possible
joint statement. And
agreed we would pick
up again on Monday.

Ours is now bring re-
worked in the light of
that and as we liaise
with SS over the
weekend on some
changes to the report
where it is factually
inaccurate. I am
hopeful these will be
addressed.

Once I have a final
draft, I would be happy
to send across to you.

It would be good to
meet on Monday. And
as I haven't met Kay,
then I would be happy
to extend the meeting
to include her and I
would bring Alwen
Lyons, who is our
Company Secretary -
Alwen has been the key
lead on the liaison with
James' office.

In the meantime, I hope
you enjoy the glorious
weather - at last!

Paula

Ps. You were on my list
to call today but I
imagine this email
exchange is sufficient
now? However, if you
would like to speak at
any time, don't hesitate
to text me.

POLO0099056
POL00099056

POL-0098639
POLO0099056
POL00099056

Sent from my iPad

On 6 Jul 2013, at 09:51,
"Alan Bates"

underst
and the
meetin

gwith
James
Arbuth
not
went
well on
Friday
andI
believe
he will
be
discussi
ng his
views
with
meon
Monda
y
mornin
8.

tam
sure
you will
agree
that it
is
importa
nt that
we
have
even an
outline

POL-0098639
docum
ent of
the
propos
ed way
forward
we
have
discuss
ed,
before
the
MPs"
meetin
g. As
soon as
itis
availabl
e, I
would
appreci
ate
seeing
your
version
of what
is
propos
ed,
hopeful
ly
amend
ed to
address
the
comme
nt
below.

Looking
through
my
notes
from
our last
convers
ation,

POLO0099056
POL00099056

POL-0098639
there is
an early
item of
concern
, that
being
the
name
of the
panel
which
you
referre
dtoas
the
‘user
group’.
Whilst I
can
appreci
ate you
want
such a
group
to
continu
eon
into the
future,
at
which
time
sucha
name
may be
suitable
« Initial
y, and
whilst it
is also
looking
at the
issues
surroun
ding
the

POLO0099056
POL00099056

POL-0098639
report
and the
cases,
possibly
‘task
group’
or
‘workin
g party’
might
be
more
accurat
e, as
technic
ally, the
bulk of
JFSA
are ex
users,
and
others
will no
doubt
pick up
on the
name. I
could
offer
‘review
board',
but I
could
see
that
might
not be
accepta
ble.

Regardi
ng
Monda
ys, do
you still
want to
meet?

POLO0099056
POL00099056

POL-0098639
If we
do
meet,
and
others
are to
attend,
I would
like Kay
Linnell,
who
has
been
working
with us
for the
last
year, to
accomp
any
me. Wi
th
travel
arrange
ment to
finalise,
I would
appreci
atea
respons
eto
that
point as
soon as
you are
able to
let me
know.

Regards

Alan

POLO0099056
POL00099056

POL-0098639
