POL00098797
POL00098797

Message

From: Paula Vennells!

on behalf of Paula Vennells!

Sent: 28/06/2013 14

To: Martin Edwards f

Subject: Fwd: next steps on Horizon issues - update
View on Ollie involvement!?

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

From: Alice Perkins ;
Date: 28 June 201

Subject: Re: Fwd: next steps on Horizon issues - update

Thanks for the updates. | am glad we have the best people on this.

Three thoughts - first is probably a red herring but I'll mention it because it came into my mind. Are the
lawyers also thinking about implications for the PO and the people in it, if there is any suggestion by SS
that things have been awry - may be OTT/worst case scenario but just need to be aware of
Maxwellisation/Salmon letters angle.

Second, | agree with Martin about the risks of getting heavy with SS - deeply unattractive. But | haven't
heard anything yet which gives me hope we can get this properly back on track. Which is worse? (I don’t
know the answer.)

{Keep aiming high here! That is, for the goal of no interim/no meeting. But | recognise that this is not
within our control.}

Third, a constructive suggestion!, shall we ask Oliver Letwin to help us turn this round?

Alice

From: Paula Vennells [mailte.
Sent: Friday, June 28, 2013 02:14 PM
To: Alice Perkins __.
Cc: AlwenLyons<
Subject: Fwd: next steps o1

Alice hi. | do hope your Friday is good. The MF visit was useful - will update you orally next week. (Martin
pls add to the list - thx.)

You will see below Alwen's proposed next steps. It covers all the ground at present. We may update
following today's phone call with SS in an hour; and certainly will update post Alwen's meeting with

Janet on Monday.

Alwen and | are staying close (two calls already today) and I'm expecting an update later this pm. So no
need to bother you today.

BW Paula

Sent from my iPhone

POL-0098380
POL00098797
POL00098797

Begin forwarded message:

From: Alwen Lyons
Date: 28 June 2013 1.
To: Paula Vennells
Subject: next steps on Horizon issues - update

Paula
°

Rod Ismay and Lesley working the detail of the 2 bugs, to understand them and
then get them into language that is clear and can be communicated

Mark is putting in place expert external comms resource to be dedicated to this
issue from Monday ( this will be from an external agency which he trusts
We have a call with SS this afternoon and we will run through the individual
cases to see how far they will have got by next Tuesday’s briefing with James
and the meeting date on the 8", this will inform my conversation with Janet on
Monday

lam going to spend time with Janet at 9.00 on Monday morning, she says she
can give me as long as it takes. My approach will be try to get to understand the
status of the review and the risk to James and us of an incomplete interim
report. | will share the fact that SS are not using all the evidence they are being
given and our concerns is that there approach to try and keep everyone happy is
not how we would expect a forensic accountant to behave. | do think this is the
right place to share the ‘bugs’ we have found and how we have dealt with them,
which is why the report from Rod/Lesley checked by legal and Mark is
important. My objective is to get Janet to a place where she also wants the
meeting to be cancelled. | am also going to mention the timing of the report
aligned with the funding and James’ unhelpful comment to Jo about ‘ unfair
convictions’. | will have to play this meeting a bit by ear!

Monday 3pm we have SS coming in to give us a preview of the messages they
are going to give to James on Tuesday. Susan is coming straight back from the
airport to attend.

Tuesday SS brief James 9 am COMMS will have reactive statements ready in
case there is a leak

Wednesday Paula has a call with James at 8.45, which may become a f2f and
possible with Alice depending on how this is progressing

Proactive COMMS to be produced for possible use before the MP meeting on
the 8

Meeting on the 8" POL not invited. James, MPs, SS, Shoesmith, and JFSA
present. James not expecting a powerpoint presentation, but SS to talk the
meeting through the issues which they have found.

We think SS will present the 4 cases some of which will not be finished, but we
are not sure yet. They will also raise the issue of the ‘bugs’ which were outside
the cases but which we disclosed to them.

Please let me know if you need anything else

Thanks
Alwen

SURI IO ISI III IO SOI IDOI SOO DAI ODI ADSI ODI DI IOSD ISI DI III IIIA

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the

POL-0098380
POL00098797
POL00098797

named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JHB IOI SHOUT SO BI III IOI BIO IAI IDI DID II ASIII IIIA

Click here to report this email as spam.

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com

POL-0098380
