Message

POL00098321

POL00098321

From:

on behalf of — Paula Vennells

Sent:
To:
Subject:

Paula Vennells

21/05/2013 05:
Theresa lles I
URGENT 4 Board - board papers - briefing notes

Ppo 4 Board thx

Sent fro

m my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

From: Martin Edwards
Date: 20 May 2013 21:
To: Paula Vennells ¢
Subject: RE: Comments on Board papers

Thanks Paula!

Re POCA ~ my point about striking a reasonably reassuring tone with the Board is less because I think
the team is completely on top of this ~ and more the point that the latest positioning from DWP should
not be viewed as a sudden and fundamental game changer. This is nowhere close to being a final govt
position ~ but what it does do helpfully is clarify one part of govt’s thinking at a time when we still have
the opportunity to take appropriate stakeholder action and think through the other scenarios. {it would
have been really unhelpful to get this info in July). Perhaps best if we discuss positioning further in the
morning if you have time?

Will forward you a separate email re Arbuthnot.

From: Paula Vennells

Sent: 20 May 2013 20:44

To: Martin Edwards

Cc: Paula Vennells

Subject: Re: Comments on Board papers

Martin, thank you. This is a masterpiece - definitely one of your best - and timely. It helps me
enormously.

Nothing significant in terms of content then...!

My one worry is that I don't believe we are on top of POCA. (You suggest I say we are.) Can you reassure
me by digging? Kevin S is too laid back - we have talked about this for months and months. Or am I being
unfair. Fact please?

Thanks again - and in advance for the CEO notes.

One last Q: James Arbuthnot review: what is the latest do you know?

Pp

Sent from my iPhone

POL-0097904
POL00098321
POL00098321

On 20 May 2013, at 15:21, "Martin Edwards";

wrote:
Hi Paula

Comments below on each of the Board agenda items. The overall point I’d make is that
while there are over 300 pages of papers, the vast majority of this is taken up by the
ARA and minutes of previous meetings. Rather than read through all of this, I’d suggest
you focus the time you have available this afternoon on thinking time as follows:

a) <!--[if !supportLists]--><!{endif]-->how to position the discussion with the Board
on mutualisation following Friday’s discussions with Will and your discussions at
conference (the short strategy & funding update from Chris and Mark’s
stakeholder plan only need to be skim read);

b) <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->how to sum up the discussions from
conference and where this leaves us on NFSP handling (although you might
prefer to let Kevin kick off on this);

c)  <!--[if lsupportLists]--><![endif]-->how to introduce the POCA topic — see my
high level pointers below (happy to discuss further over the phone); and

d) <!--[if !supportLists]--><!{endif]-->in light of the above, how to position the
discussion with Mark Russell.

1. Strategy and funding update (including the stakeholder and communications plan)

You only have 30 mins allocated to discuss some very meaty topics. I’d therefore
suggest that you and Alice focus the time available on the following substantive
points/updates (particularly iii and iv):

i) <!--[if IsupportLists]--><![endif]-->on the strategy discussions with
government, the main concerns at this stage are on POCA (to be discussed
as part of the FooG slot) and mandation. On the latter, we have made
progress with the Minister — she understands the case intellectually, but
nonetheless this still remains an incredibly difficult decision for her
politically. Our focus now is on reassuring her that we have a rigorous and
credible plan to implement the proposed changes, in a way which minimises
the stakeholder noise. (The next meeting with her is on 3 June).

ii) <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->on funding:

a. <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->quantum — no specific warnings yet
from govt that we will not secure what we need, but we shouldn’t be
sanguine — the difficult horse-trading with BIS finance may yet arise in
early/mid June as they seek to finalise their wider spending settlement
with HMT;

b. <!-[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->time scale — our central case scenario
remains a two year settlement, but if HMT impose a strict stance with
all depts then we may only get one year. We have put forward clear
arguments and Shex are fully supportive. We propose reviewing the
case for a longer-term deal (for the years beyond 2016/17) from July
onwards. Shex support this approach. We will discuss with the Board
again in July so no need to make a final decision now.

iii) <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->On mutualisation, in light of discussions
over the past few days we need to consider the option of offering more
clarity about the timetable/milestones, otherwise Ministers and/or the
NFSP will seek to fill the vacuum and we may lose control of the agenda.
This is a commercial argument as much as anything (every company needs

POL-0097904
POL00098321
POL00098321

to manage its political landscape). In terms of Board handling, the best
approach might be to agree this broad principle at this stage, and suggest
that we will come back with further advice on the options to discuss in June
(we would need to make time within the agenda of the offsite). To Alice’s
concern, this external messaging would absolutely start with a clear
statement and definition of financial sustainability (and we are progressing
the work with Rothschild to support this).

iv) <!--[if IsupportLists]--><![endif]-->Governance: board sub-committee’s
mandate should be extended to allow sufficient flexibility for the next
period of negotiations with government.

Mark’s paper on comms/stakeholder planning is in good shape — the only comments
back were from Alice re Labour handling and network size commitments (on both
questions I think Mark’s response was spot on). If the other NEDs have comments which
aren’t substantive major points then it might be appropriate for Alice to ask them to be
sent to Mark by email in view of time pressures.

The Board shouldn’t spend long discussing the ‘deep dive’ process with Shex/KPMG
(which is frankly an irrelevance in the context of the big issues noted above!).

2. NTP, Crowns and NFSP strategy

The only paper which has been tabled for this discussion is the one on the Crowns/IR
situation — the other papers on NTP and NFSP handling which were tabled for ExCo last
week are being dealt with as oral updates. I assume as part of this agenda item you will
provide a read-out of the conference discussions.

We discussed the Crowns paper in detail at ExCo last week — as you know, the main
recommendation is that we should maintain our resolve while redoubling
communications efforts (redeploying super-briefers) and closely monitoring the impact
of the IR situation on customers and our ability to implement the CTP reforms. Seeking
to impose the pay offer or force the hand of colleagues would increase the risk that staff
aren’t brought into the necessary workplace reforms. Equally any compromise with the
CWU at this stage would also undermine the CTP plan and our position with the NFSP.

Project Robin is covered in the CEO’s report but may be better discussed as part of this
item. As we discussed last week, while the reforms are helpful to staff during a period of
no consolidated pay increases (because they provide an RPI uplift), we do not believe
we should undermine our relationship with RM by proceeding with the staff
consultation before they are ready.

Kevin will obviously need to provide an update on the agreement reached with the CWU
on Thursday re the £100 ‘not a colleague share’(!) — explaining that: a) this was an
important breakthrough given that CWU conceded the link to transformation; b) we
needed to honour our previous commitments in this area to maintain the moral high
ground; and c) it comes out of the £1,400 payment for last year.

On the recommendation that we shouldn’t share additional information with the CWU
while the dispute is ongoing — this needs to be subject to the caveat of Fol risks which
we discussed as ExCo last week (i.e. we need to be clear that we can exempt

information as commercially confidential under the Fol Act if we want to withhold it).

3. ARA

POL-0097904
Spoke to Chris and Mark about this — the overall sense from both is that we’re in
reasonably good shape at this stage. There were two broad themes which came back
from Board members in their comments over the weekend:

-  <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->the document is still too long with too much
repetition — Mark is doing some further editing and also believes that once it’s
in the proper format this will help with the flow and readability;

-  <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->some substantive debate between Susannah,
Alice and Neil about the positioning in the DRR re the political constraints on
remuneration. Mark is working up a new form of words which attempts to strike
the balance between making the point which Neil wants to register, while not
sounding too tetchy/provocative (i.e. Susannah’s concern). He was going to test
this out with Neil, Alice and Susannah this afternoon (he will send you a side
copy, but we agreed that it probably wouldn’t be appropriate for you to be
directly copied into this particular exchange).

4. LTIP/STIP papers

The first paper is just a factual update on the 2012/13 outturns against the scorecard
measures and the implications for STIP payments to you and Chris.

The second paper is there for governance purposes i.e. RemCom reporting back its
recommendations to the full Board. Neil will lead this discussion. The paper:
a) <!--[if lsupportLists]--><![endif]-->outlines the recommended scorecard
measures for 2013/14;
b)  <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->explains the proposed STIP arrangements for
Chris (which I understand you have already discussed with him); and
c)  <!--[if lsupportLists]--><![endif]-->explains the proposed LTIP performance
conditions for the award dated April 2013 (linked to access criteria and EBITDAS
targets).

I checked with Alwen - Alice may ask you and Chris to leave the room during this
discussion.

5. Mark Russell lunch

The approach to the conversation with Mark will fall out of the morning’s internal
discussions with the Board on strategy, mutualisation and POCA. To state the obvious, it
is important that Mark’s encounter with the Board backs up your conversation with him
a couple of weeks ago — i.e. he needs to leave with a clear sense that this is a strong,
commercially-focussed and independently minded Board which Ministers need to take
very seriously. But not one which is politically naive — we know we need to manage our
political/stakeholder environment effectively in order to deliver our commercial
objectives.

In addition to the bullet points sent to the Board by Alwen on 16 May (at 13.28), a
couple of other questions/issues you might want to raise with him:

-  <!--[if lsupportLists]--><![endif]-->Are there any parallels or lessons learnt from
other parts of the Shex portfolio on how to handle our situation? (i.e. similar
instances of tensions between commercial and political interests and how they
have been managed?).

POL00098321
POL00098321

POL-0097904
POL00098321
POL00098321

-  <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->Mark will be close to the RM sales process, so
worth probing for his thinking on interdependencies with our position and any
further intelligence on developments.

-  <l--[if !supportLists]--><!{endif]-->Any further intelligence from Mark’s
discussions with Howard Orme on the funding prospects (both in terms of
quantum and time horizon)? Is there anything more we need to be doing to
build our case?

6. FooG update

I gather from Alwen this discussion may be moved forward to the morning to come
before the lunch with Mark R.

On the major issue (POCA), I know you are due to speak to Martin M this afternoon (I
gave him a quick update this morning). Obviously one of the issues to agree with him is
whether you or he should introduce the latest developments with DWP to the Board. If
you need a speaking note let me know, but otherwise I’ll avoid putting details down in
an email. I think the overall message should be that we’re taking the situation seriously
and putting in place the necessary analytical and stakeholder workstreams — but there is
no reason to panic at this stage.

On the wider paper, it’s in much better shape than it was (a relative statement!).
Explains how we’re re-focussing our resources on 6 key opportunities (POCA; IDA; IPS
digital journey; assisted digital more generally; DVLA enhancements; UKBA
enhancements), with some associated cost savings. We may need to reassure the Board
that we’re absolutely not waving the white flag on this — but that it makes commercial
sense to adopt a more targeted approach rather than trying to be everything to
everyone within govt. The commercial and communications teams are working closely
together to take this forward at both a working and political level (and we’re also
highlighting the dependencies to BIS as part of our strategic plan). You may also want to
mention the external stakeholder support: a) the very positive Consumer Futures report
published today, which highlights the value which the public place on our delivery of
govt services; b) the NFSP lobbying — which while cack-handed and overplayed, should
at least help focus the Government on the need to make further progress.

The only substantive update in the paper is on the IDA procurement process, where
we’ve now received more clarity from Cabinet Office about the forecast (but not
guaranteed) volumes over the next 18 months. In view of the uncertainty we’re looking
to de-risk the financials by partnering with a wholesale provider — our brand and

unrivalled physical presence should put us in a strong position to secure a favourable
arrangement.

7. Minutes of previous meetings

I didn’t spot anything significant to note in the various minutes. There are no actions
attributed to you in the status report.

8. CEO’s report

Separate background note to follow this afternoon — I’m chasing down some additional
updates.

9. Financial performance update

POL-0097904
No papers for P1, Chris will provide an oral update. The key headlines were as Nick S set
out last week:

-  <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->EBIT is favourable against budget once
adjustments are taken into account;

-  <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->Costs favourable against budget overall — but
further work needed to meet the additional staff costs efficiency challenge
(which is currently held centrally);

-  <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->Income is slightly adverse against budget —
while travel and passports are performing strongly, mails is behind, particularly
as a result of the Bentley changes (the mitigating actions are discussed in more
detail as part of the CEO’s report).

-  <!--[if lsupportLists]--><![endif]-->POOC costs are over-spending, mainly as a
result of unplanned carry over of spend from 12/13 (although apparently we’re
in a better position than at this point last year). Mitigating action is a regime of
close monthly monitoring of project spend for each directorate.

10. Items for noting

No significant developments to note in: a) the H&S report (the trends are marginally
positive); b) the register of sealings; and c) the significant litigation report (on the latter
we'll need to update the Board on the Second Sight investigation in July as part of the
CEO’s report — I discussed with Alwen and we agreed that it would be premature to brief
the Board on developments tomorrow. You've got a meeting with Alice and Alwen after
the Board to agree the approach with JA).

On the FS ARC paper, just a couple of points to note:

-  <!--[if !supportLists]--><!{endif]-->re-confirms the view that we’re content with
Bol’s capital and liquidity position;

-  <!--[if lsupportLists]--><![endif]-->it doesn’t cover two points that have emerged
from the regulators as part of the Polo discussions, which Nick will mention in
the ARC if there’s an opportunity (on both we can say that we will engage Tim
on the detail):

o. <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->FCA is now going to be taking a much
closer interest in our customer interactions (e.g. commented in detail
on Polo press release), and will be interviewing both you and Nick in the
coming weeks;

0 <!-[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->the PRA is going to be taking a closer
interest in the Bol’s resolution regime for the current account — and
helpfully flagged this up to us in a three-way meeting on 10 May. We
will be maintaining appropriate pressure on Bol to ensure this doesn’t
hold up the full launch of the current account next year.

-  <l--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->On Polo, will provide you an update on the
first week’s trading performance as part of the background briefing for the
CEO’s report.

Let me know if there is anything more you need from me.
Thanks, Martin
Martin Edwards I Chief of Staff to the Chief Executive

<image001.png>
07436 546722

POL00098321
POL00098321

POL-0097904
POL00098321
POL00098321

POL-0097904
