POL00043711
POL00043711

. a
Nw

0 1 SEP 1999
1oLy]

To Graeme Seedall/POCL/POSTOFFICE:
Folkes/ITS/POSG/POSTOFFI
Meagher/POCL/POSTOFFIC!
Rogers/POCL/POSTOFFIC!
Baines/POCL/POSTOFFIC!
Burdett/POCL/POSTOFFICE.
Holleran/POCL/POSTOFFICE!
Graystan/POCL/POSTOFFICE _

GRO

cc

Hard Copy To
i Hard Copy cc

From

Date

Subject Agenda for 2 Sep Acceptance Workshop

Attached tomorrows agenda. Please contact me if you are unsure whether you are
expected to attend this workshop.

Altea

&

‘AGENDADOC

POL00043711
POL00043711

Horizon - Acceptance Dispute Workshop

Renaissance Hotel, Heathrow, 2 September 1999

: Outline Agenda

Spitfire Suite

Thursday 2 September 1999

09:15 - 09:30 Coffee

09:30 - 09:45 Introduction

09:45 - 09:50 Minutes of 25/26 Aug workshops

09:50 - 13:00 AI 391- issues arising from report
AI 376 - plan for fixes and working group update
AI 314 - progress on resolution

! AI 372 - check on progress
13:00 - 14:00 Buffet Lunch

14:00 - 17:00 AI 218 - severity

AI 298 - working group report and criteria for reducing from high
(—] severity

AI 369 - check on progress
17:00 - 17:15 Planning for Monday 6 September

17:15 - 17:30 Any Other Business

17:30 - 18:00 POCL-only wash-up meeting

Coffee, tea & biscuits at 11:00 and 16:00

Horizon Acceptance Team

POL00043711
POL00043711

I

Horizon Programme

Acceptance Workshop
Renaissance Hotel, Heathrow.
11.00 - 16.00 on 25" August 1999
ACTION POINTS

Attendees .

POCL: Keith Baines, John Meagher, Ruth Holleran, Min Burdett, Graham White, Jeremy Folkes, Jeff
Austin (minutes)

Pathway: Tony Oppenheim, John Dicks, Tony Hayward (item 4), Barry Procter (item 5), Dave Jones
(item 5), Dave Hollingsworth (item 6).

Agreed Category B Faults
‘Action Date I Workshop
Date
T.__I Of the nine Agreed Category B Faults, there are six with agreed 31* Augto I 6" Sept
resolution plans. It was agreed that ICL Pathway would submit an 5% Sept

Acceptance Incident Analysis Form to cover the agreed resolution plan
for each of the six Acceptance Incidents for POCL’s agreement. (The six
incidents are 342, 361, 3H, 211, 399 and 35) Bailes — looy eeeee weaken Re elosore,

_ Preliminary discussion of AI 378 - Incomplete cash account records

Action Date I Workshop
Date

2. I AI.378 is to be discussed on 26". It was thought that a new occurrence of I 26" Aug 26" Aug
this fault had arisen (12 August). However, Pathway have now stated
that this was a different fault. Therefore, one of the issues to discuss on
26" will be for Pathway to demonstrate that this new occurrence is a
different fault, In the meantime, it was agreed that POCL would raise a
separate new Acceptance Incident for the new fault

AI 369 - Scanner Reliability

Action Date I Workshop

Date
3. I The following were agreed: 2™ Sept
* Pathway would write up the results of the last 100-cover laboratory (Progress
tests and submit a report to POCL. check)

* Pathway and POCL would conduct data analysis to validate the DSS
proposition that there has been a higher level of impound rates on
OBCS compared with ESNS yet, as they were all valid books, there
must therefore be a higher rate of false rejection (impounds) on
OBCS than on ESNS. Pathway will conduct the data analysis and
validation work for OBCS; POCL will conduct the work for ESNS.

«Pathway will set up field validation of actual rejects occurring in
outlets. The validation tests will determine the cause of the rejects as
between scanner, user, paper, ink, damage, condition etc. This
activity is expected to require a mobile laboratory facility.

* POCL will seck observation of the field validation tests by DSS

POL00043711
POL00043711

Horizon Programme

Action Date I Workshop
Date

observers.

* POCL will request the DSS to provide the covers off books rejected
during field validation &/or historically rejected books to Pathway
for laboratory testing.

© POCL will check training course material for the adequacy of
scanner user training and/or instructions.

* POCL will obtain the DSS’s buy-in to the above approach to the
resolution of this AI.

It was expected that Karen Rogers would co-ordinate this activity for

POCL and that John Dicks would initially do so for Pathway.

AI 314 - Provision of Technical Documentation

Action Date I Workshop
Date

4, I Pathway provided new proposals (AI 314 - Third Party Procurements 31* Aug 2” Sept
dated 23/08/99) at the workshop. It was agreed that POCL would review
these proposals and provide review comments to Pathway by close of
play 31" August and that Pathway would accordingly amend and re-
issue the proposals in advance of the workshop planned for 2s
September.

AI 391 - Physical Security at Bootle and Wigan

Action Date I Workshop

Date
5. I The workshop discussed the observations made following the visit to the 2™ Sept
data centres leading to the raising of the Al. POCL's requirements were 13” Sept

expressed and various solutions, some of which had been implemented
or were planned to be implemented, were discussed. It was agreed that
Pathway would produce a new status report in the form of an
Acceptance Incident Analysis. It was expected that this report would be
issued at or before the workshop planned for 2" September. The report
will also confirm or otherwise the site visit planned for some time during
week beginning 6” September. It is expected that this incident should
then be discussed in full at the workshop on 13 September

AI 372 - Systems Management

Action Date I Workshop

Date
6. I Cormupted dil files 2™ Sept
Pathway explained that the root cause has not yet been established but it (progress
is thought that it may lie with the system software. Currently, there are check)

‘ daily checks being conducted, which would identify any re-occurrence
of the problem and the proposition is that these checks should continue
until either the root cause is identified or else both parties are satisfied
that the problem is not re-occurring.

e It was agreed that Pathway would prepare a resolution plan in the form
of proposals containing criteria for deciding if and when to discontinue

POL00043711

POL00043711

Horizon Programme

Action Date I Workshop

Date
the daily checks and focusing in particular on a further test of similar
scale and nature to the LT2 release. i
7, I Adefailure 2™ Sept \
“Pathway explained that this was a separate problem, attributable to (progress
handling of long error messages, and that the fault had been fixed. check)

It was agreed that Pathway would provide details of the testing involved,
e.g. the PinICL number and work number within OTT.

Jeff Austin

POL00043711
POL00043711

a

Arte}

a I

Horizon Programme
Acceptance Workshop (2)
Renaissance Hotel, Heathrow
11.00 - 18:00 on 26 August 1999

ACTION Points
Attendees:

Expert: Peter Copping

POCL: Keith Baines, John Meagher, Ruth Holleran, Graham White, Jeremy Folkes, Min Burdett
(minutes), Graeme Seedall (376, 378 only), Martin Box (376, 378 only), Calum Craig (376, 378 only),

* Adele Henderson (408 only) Dave McLauglin (408, 298 only), Steve Grayston (218 only), Trevor

Rollason (218 only)

Pathway: Tony Oppenheim, John Dicks, John Pope (376, 378 only), Steve Muchow (408, 298, 218
only), Dave Cook (408 only), Peter Burden (408 only), Terry Austin (298 only), Dave Hollingsworth
(298 only), Liam Foley (218 only) Andy Barker (218 only)

376 Data Integrity

Date

T. I POCL needs to be confident of the root cause analysis and fixes, both 26" August I 2™ Sept
applied and planned to be applied. Working Group of POCL (Graeme to 1" Sept
Seedall, Martin Box, Calum Craig) and Pathway (John Pope) to review
“TIP Incident Status Report”. Report progress and issues back to

Workshop.
2, I Pathway needs to make clear the OBC procedures and practice that will I 2™ Sept 9 or 13”
be in place, both up to CSR+ and after CSR+, for: Sept

‘¢ changing the status of core products to non-core
© decreasing the availability of non-core products.

This to be documented by Pathway (referring to existing documents
where appropriate) and reviewed by Working Group (see 1). There will
bea test of the agreed (interim) procedures by releasing currently
suppressed changes through a managed programme. This test to be
planned by 2™ Sept and progressed sufficiently to assure the procedures
by 9" or 13" Workshop. Flag up on 2 Sept Workshop if problems with
progress.

3. _I Pathway propose to introduce a fix to ensure that the Cash Account does I 26" August - 2™ Sept
not lose transactions (PinICL 27748 refers). As part of 1 above, review I to 1* Sept
fix and confirm acceptability of fix to this group.

4, _ I John Pope to confirm to this group that the fix referred to in 3 above has 13” Sept
been implemented.

Action Date I Workshop

POL00043711
POL00043711

Action Date

Workshop
Date

Pathway are proposing a 3-level data integrity check to be implemented
in December. This needs to be documented as a high level design
including failure state analysis. POCL (Calum Craig, Graeme Seedall,
Martin Box and Jeremy Folkes) to be involved in interactive
walkthroughs during the development of the design. Report progress
and issues to this group.

6" Sept.

POCL’s position is that roll-out should not commence until data integrity
can be assured. Ruth Holleran to consider with the Auditors, and report
back to this group, whether the current Pathway checks plus, possibly,
continuing POCL checks, would be adequate until Pathway’s full data
integrity checks are in place.

6" Sept

Pathway to review whether there are any interim checks which can be
undertaken on the cash account stream - report back to this group.

6" Sept

Pathway to prepare rectification plan and present to this group.

6" Sept

378

Incomplete Cash Account Records

Action Date

Workshop
Date

POCL would like to understand how the “Non-Stock” records were lost
from the TIP file. John Pope to explain to Martin Box. Report back any
issues to this group.

6" Sept

10.

POCL would like to understand how Pathway have undertaken their
design level review to analyse and defend against POCL’s general
exposure to faults occurring duc to multiple user key/touch screen
entries, Pathway to arrange, Jeremy Folkes to arrange suitable POCL,
participants. Report back any issues to this group.

6" Sept

1h.

Tt was agreed that a new AI would not be raised (this supersedes decision
made at previous Acceptance Workshop).

408

HSH Performance

Action Date

Workshop
Date

12.

Pathway have sent the HSH scripts to POCL for review. POCL will do
an early check and feed back to Pathway any scripts which would be
“dangerous” to introduce into live operation. (Adele Henderson)

27" Aug

13.

‘A POCL/Pathway workshop will be held to walk through POCL’s
comments on the scripts. Adele Henderson to arrange. If possible
POCL will send comments to Pathway in advance of workshop.

2” Sept

14.

Pathway will arrange a workshop aimed at giving POCL confidence in
their resourcing model and to confirm their analysis that a level 3 expert
domain for cash accounting is required. Report back outcome and issues
to this group.

Some time
6 to 8" Sept

9" Sept

POL00043711
POL00043711

Action Date I Workshop
Date

15. I Pathway are having difficulty with recruitment due to POCL’s 6 week 27” August
security vetting period for candidates. Pathway wish to recruit at their
own risk in parallel with the security check and will ensure proper
supervision on POCL sensitive areas. Dave McLaughlin to check
whether this proposal is acceptable to POCL..

16. I POCL (Dave McLaughlin) to review whether the up to 6 week security I 2" Sept
check can be shortened.

17. I Pathway to produce a rectification plan for presenting to this group. 9" Sept
‘This plan to include date for when target SLAs will be met.

18. I Pathway to produce outline proposal on Service Levels for the cash 9 Sept
accounting expert domain.

298 System Stability
Action Date I Workshop
Date

19. I A joint POCL/Pathway working group has been established to review 2” Sept,
deficiencies. This group is agreeing: 6" Sept,
© metrics (current and retrospective monitoring) 13" Sept
* underlying cause
«what fixes when (both introduced and in progress) and correlate these

to the deficiencies

* results of the fixes.
‘The working group to report back to this group progress, outcome and
issues.

20. I POCL Gohn Meagher/Ruth Holleran) and Pathway (Terry Austin) to 6" Sept 6" Sept
agree achievement levels for each deficiency. This will establish the
target levels for reducing this Acceptance Incident from High to

6 Medium.
21. I Pathway will develop a policy document describing how they will 229" Sept 13" Sept

minimise the risk of destablising the system in subsequent releases.
Policy document to be issued and discussed with POCL (Jeremy Folkes
to arrange POCL participants) in advance of discussions at this group.

218 Training
Action Date I Workshop
Date
22. I Pathway will issue a full spec. of the new Pre-assessment event for 27° Aug
POCL review.

23. _I Pathway will issue a CCN for POCL agreement in response to a change Tssue 31°

request for RNM training. Meeting between Liam Foley and Bruce Aug, meet
McNiven to discuss. 1" Sept
24. I Pathway will issue a draft note on Monitoring Training Delivery for 27" Aug

POCL review.

POL00043711
POL00043711

‘Action Date I Workshop
Date

25. I A working group will meet to progress: 1* Sept

* performance assessment

how to encourage use of training mode (both POCL and Pathway
should come prepared with improvement ideas)

© the remaining 2 changes to the training courses - output to be a
jointly agreed document.

26. I Review progress above at this meeting. 6" Sept

27. I Steve Grayston to arrange meeting within POCL (Bruce MeNiven, Keith 2” Sept
Baines, Ruth Holleran, Steve Grayston) to determine the success criteria
for reducing this to a Medium and resolving. Report back to this
meeting.

28. I Pathway proposed that severity is reduced from High to Medium. POCL 24 Sept
to review for 2°! Sept why this should not happen.

The meeting summarised the intended topics for future workshops, recognising that additional topics
will be added as we progress.

2™ September Workshop (9:30 at the Renaissance Hotel Heathrow)

376 plan for fixes and working group update

298 working group report and criteria for reducing from High
218 severity

314 progress on resolution

391issues arising from report

369 check on progress

372 check on progress

6" September Workshop (TBA)

f—) : a sate Are, By Pate 0,
TB: BIZ GW,

+ 298 update on progress — Je Ut
+ 408 update on scripts Sa Git Shoe Hslos,
* Overall timetable first draft. — MAke-CoomtS.

9" September Workshop (TBA)

* 408 update on resourcing model and cash accounting expert domain SLAs etc
* 376 report on procedures (if possible)

* Overall timetable

13" September Workshop (TBA)

* 376 report on procedures (if not taken at 9/9/99 Workshop)
¢ 298 longer term plan

