POL00178034
POL00178034

Message
From: Simon Baker [imceaex-
_o=mms_ou=exchange+20administrative+20group+20+28fydibohf23spdlt+29_cn=recipients_cn=simon+2ebaker4b1a8
ef6-d2e0-4dec-94ea-591dfa651f2e@c72a47.ingest.local]
Sent: 20/06/2013 19:18:34
To: Lesley J Sewell
Subject: RE: Defects in Horizon

Attachments FW_Receipts and Payments issue.em!

Lesley
I am probably being thick, but I can't find a section 8?

Today Rod sent me the full message with this document and the letters - attached. I am not going to send
second Sight the email as there are some unhelpful comments in it, but the attachments look like they
will be useful to them.

simon

----+1 Original Message-----
From: Lesley J Sewell

Sent: 20 June 2013 08:42

To: Simon Baker

Cc: Susan Crichton; Alwen Lyons
Subject: Re: Defects in Horizon

simon

when I look at the first report section 8 covers asks that we have made of FJ. Is that now or was that
at the time of the incident and have we had the detail back?

L
Sent from my iPad

on 19 Jun 2013, at 20:11, "Simon Baker" / GRO + wrote:

All
Ron has asked for more information about the problems we discussed a month or so ago.

I plan on sending him the attached report. I would also like to send him the letters we sent to sub
jostmasters for the receipts payment problem but will need to ask Rod for these.

For discussion at our Friday 10am meeting.
simon

-----Original Message
Fro
Sent: 19 June 2013 18:44
To: Simon Baker

¢c: Henderson Ian

Subject: Defects in Horizon

VVVVVVYVVVYVVY5VVV VY

Simon: you mentioned to me, about three weeks ago, two system defects or bugs. You said they had
affected about 64 SPMRs as I recall. One had led to a £9,000 or so shortfall that had been investigated
by Andy Winn and, as I understood you to say, that amount had been written off and then later discovered
to have been caused by the defect/bug.

>

> Now here's the point: Ian and I agree that those two defects need to be mentioned in the Interim
Report. POL is going to have to disclose them.

>
> What we will need therefore is a short, clear, report on what happened. we will need that next week in
order to cover the matter in the Interim Report and the July 8th Meeting.

>

> Hope you can do that.

>
> Thanks and regards.
>

POL-BSFF-0016097
Ron.

sent from my iPhone
<ReceiptsPaymentsvO 4.doc>
<Inital report from Gareth LocalSuspense .docx>

POL00178034
POL00178034

POL-BSFF-0016097_0001
