POL00423519
POL00423519

POST OFFICE LIMITED

MINUTES OF A MEETING OF THE RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF POST OFFICE
LIMITED HELD ON THURSDAY 12 NOVEMBER 2020 AT 11:00 VIA MICROSOFT TEAMS

Present: Attendees: ]
Alisdair Cameron (Chairman) (AC) Helen Rhodes (People Shared Services Director) (observing)
(HR)
Lisa Cherry (Group Chief People Officer) (LC) Meredith Sharples (Director of Telecoms) (MS): Item 3.3
Ben Foat (Group General Counsel) (BF) Tony Jowett (Chief Information Security Officer) (TJ): Item
4

Amanda Jones (Group Retail and Franchise Network Director) I Rob Wilkins (Cloud Services Director) (RWI): Item 4
(AJ) —_
Cathy Mayor (Finance Director, Commercial) (deputising for Mark Underwood (LCG Operations Director) (MU): Item 5
Owen Woodley) (CM)

Jeff Smyth (Group Chief Information Officer) (JS) Tim Perkins (Head of Security, Safety & Loss Prevention)
(TP): Item 6
Regular Attendees: Christine Kirby (Financial Controls Manager) (CK): item 7
Johann Appel (Head of Internal Audit) (JA) Brian Kelly (Finance Director - Tax, Treasury and Working
Capital) (BK): Item 8
Mark Baldock (Head of Risk) (MB) Declan Salter (GLO Director) (DS): Item 9
Jonathan Hill (Compliance Director) (JH) Graham Hemingway (Historical Matters Portfolio Lead)
(GH): Item 9
Tom Lee (Head of Finance Financial Accounting and Controls) Ed Dutton (Post Office Insurance Managing Director) (ED):
(TL) Item 10
Rebecca Whibley (Senior Assistant Company Secretary) Karl Oliver (Head of Commercial Partnerships) (KO): Item
(RW) 12
Apologies: Dan Zinner (Group Chief Strategy and Transformation
__ JN Officer) (DZ): Item 13 I
Owen Woodley (Group Chief Commercial Officer) (OW) __I Saira Burwood (Head of SPO) (SB): Item 13 I
Nick Read (Group CEO) (NR) Andrew Goddard (Payzone MD) (AG): I
I

Sarah Gray (Group Legal Director) (SG): Item 15

Rod Williams (Head of Legal, DR & Brand) (RWIL): Item 16

Barbara Brannon (Procurement Director) (BB): Item 17

Ed Dyer (Working Capital and Cash Management Lead)
(EDY): Item 19

1. Welcome and Conflicts of Interest Action

The Chair opened the meeting and advised that all papers would be taken as read.
No conflicts of interest were declared.

2. Minutes and Action Lists

2.1 The minutes of the Committee meeting held 10 September 2020 were APPROVED,
subject to an amendment to paragraph 3.3 requested by Ben Foat such that it reads:
“Legal - POL unable to comply with legislative and regulatory changes, resulting in
fines, lost revenue, reputational and customer damage. It was noted that legal and
regulatory changes are managed through the Law & Trends forum and reported to
RCC and ARC_to avoid this.”

2.2 Progress on completion of actions as shown on the action log was NOTED as follows:

Action _1 from 10 September 2020 para 3.6 GLO/Freedom_of Information
Requests/GDPR: This action was covered the Data Governance item (see paragraph
16). The action was closed.

POL00423519
POL00423519

Action 2 from 10 September 2020 para 4 Pensions Assurance: Project Assurance
Steerco has been created and was to meet monthly. Data was being recalculated and
results would not be available until the end of November. An update would be
provided to the Committee in January 2021. The action remained open.

Action 3 from 13 July 2020 para 7 Suspense Accounts: This action was covered the
Suspense Accounts item (see paragraph 5). The action was closed.

Action 4 from 13 July 2020 para 3.5 Compliance Report (TelCo): An update was
included in the Compliance Paper presented to the Committee. There was an error in
the minutes for 13 July 2020 and the action should read: "the Telco team was asked
to consider ways to reduce the number of customers out of contract and to revert to
the Committee with a statement/plan for November ." The action remained open.

Action 5 from _5 May 2020 para 3.15 Fit & Proper Policy: This policy would be
presented to the Committee in January 2021 and HR have discussed involvement
with Operations and it was agreed the policy was to be owned by Operations. The
action was closed.

Action 6 from _7 November 2019 para 10.6 MRLO Report: HMRC were still not
conducting any meetings and the action was to be updated at the next meeting in
January 2021. The action remained open.

Action 7 from _7 November 2019 para 3.2 Supplier Contracts Out of Governance
(SSK): SSK Procurement Project would now be formally closed and any future activity
would sit under the Network Strategy workstream. Automation forms a clear part of
this strategy and was fully backed by the Board. Network Strategy was due to go
back to Board in January with an update on Automation and Technology (this included
SPM dependencies and route to procure). In relation to the existing estate the
procurement team were investigating a PCR compliant route to maintain the current
estate and potential procurement of new with a target resolution date of 29/01/2021.
The action remained open.

Action 8 from_7 November 2019 para 3.3 Supplier Contracts Out of Governance
Brands/RAPP): A compliant tender process has been run and the contract has been
awarded to the incumbent provider, with operational costs reduced. Contracts were
nearing finalisation with a target completion date of end November. The action
remained open.

Action 9 from 7 November 2019 para 5.3 Cyber Security Incident Test: A desktop
exercise to bed in new processes would be conducted in November and then in
subsequent months an external party (Nettitude) would be used to conduct live tests.
This action would otherwise be updated as part of the regular updates to the
Committee. The action was closed.

3. Risk, Compliance and Audit Update
Risk
3.1 Risk Dashboard: Mark Baldock introduced the paper, which had been circulated

Previously and was taken as read. In response to questions from the Committee, it
was explained that the enterprise risk structure mirrors the Orange Book of Risk
Management and was thematic. It was not expected that the risks would change from
one month to another. It was the linked risks where the detail changed more
frequently: there have been 72 new linked risks over the last three months and 100
linked risks were closed at an intermediate and local level. The question was when
the changes in these linked risks impacted the enterprise risk and there needed to be

Strictly Confidential Page 2 of 11
POL00423519
POL00423519

a material change to impact the enterprise risk rating. The Chair highlighted that the
dashboard needed to better highlight any changes in risk vs. the ongoing
management of an existing risk. Ben Foat further commented that risk scores were
given but the numbers were not defined. It was also highlighted that Declan Salter
should be identified against the GLO risk and the impact score for the Starling and
GLO risk should be five, not three. It was agreed that Mark Baldock would make these
changes to the risk dashboard, including putting any new risks to the front of the
dashboard moving forwards (from January 2021) and provide a verbal update on
these elements to the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee (ARC) in November.

The Committee otherwise NOTED the Risk Dashboard for onward submission to the
Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee (ARC).

Action:

3.2

Risk Policy: The Committee approved the Risk Policy, incorporating the approach to
Risk Appetite, for onward submission to the ARC, subject to the following changes:
- Compliance was to be added to the second line of defence.
- It was to be made clear that the policy applied to the Historical Matters Unit
(HMU).
- The Board and ARC were not first line defence entities but sat above the
defence line structure so should be removed as first line defence entities.
- The Committee was the be added to the Risk Governance Structure.
- The operational detail included on page 13 would be taken out placed in the
Risk Management Framework such that it could be changed if needed without
needing to revise the policy.

It was also confirmed that the policy did not apply to Payzone Bill Payments Limited
and Post Office Insurance, although these entities will have regard to the policy. Both
were to adopt their own Risk Policies and despite Post Office Insurance having its own
ARC, the Group ARC still oversaw both entities with reports from Post Office Insurance
to the Group ARC. Material risks for Post Office Insurance were also included in the
Risk Dashboard.

Action:

Compliance

3.3

Jonathan Hill introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. The specific items below were highlighted and discussed by the
Committee.

Telecoms Comms Incident: Jonathan Hill confirmed that this was the fourth or fifth
regulatory breach seen in the Telecoms area. Whilst it was serious, the number of
customers impacted was low and it was hoped the penalty would be minimised. It
was not clear how much the fine could be as it could be up to 10% of revenue but it
was expected to be less than the fine for the Text Rely issue which was £175,000 as
the present incident was not as serious, took less time to resolve and affected less
customers. Meredith Sharples explained that the breach was caused by a Fujitsu
system failure attributed to file size issues. The breach protocol was immediately
instigated and the team engaged with Ofcom. The number of customers impacted
was small and the team was working to recompense. Fujitsu were to bear the cost
for the breach and a proposal was expected from them later this week. The Chair
congratulated Meredith Sharples on dealing with the issue quickly but highlighted that
the current contractual situation was untenable (the contract and systems were seven
years old and there was no appropriate compliance team). Ultimately, what happens
next depended on the on-going strategic discussions regarding the possible sale of
the Telecoms business.

Branch registration errors: In response to questions from the Committee, it was
confirmed that it was hoped there may little or no penalty for branches completing
Travel Money transactions after having been de-registered from HMRC.

Strictly Confidential Page 3 of 11
POL00423519
POL00423519

Money Service Business/Capita: It has been identified that high risk suspicious cash
deposits from a Money Service Business (a money transmitter) were being accepted,
via the bill payment reseller client Capita. The Chair highlighted that a decision had
been taken to not use Money Service Businesses and therefore this practice must
stop as soon as possible. Jonathan Hill explained that he was meeting with Capita
next week (w/c 16 November 2020) and that they would be told to stop and a timeline
would be agreed. Jonathan Hill indicated that the business would be seeking
immediate termination and the Chair agreed with this approach.

Compliance Monitoring: The Chair questioned whether it was right to pause mystery
shopping due to the recent lockdown measures. Jonathan Hill explained that the
decision was taken partly for safety (so mystery shoppers did not have to travel and
go into branches), but also because no one was buying travel insurance due to the
lockdown. As such, mystery shopping would recommence when travel was permitted.

Anti-bribery and Corruption Training: It was explained that completion by the HR
business unit was at 81.7% (compared to 96.5% across the business) (subject to
revised figures being provided). Lisa Cherry was asked to ensure colleagues in her
area completed this training as soon as possible and Jonathan Hill would provide her
with the latest list of those who had not yet completed it.

Whistleblowing Update: There were no thematic concerns and it was explained that
the majority have been received from agent assistants and relate to allegations
concerning Postmaster activity. A more centralised approach to Postmaster reported
concerns was being taken (separate from the whistleblowing process) so as to
ascertain any broad themes.

Access to Cash: The Committee asked that the draft of the responses to the call for
evidence on Access to Cash were circulated to the Group Executive (GE).

Action:
LC/JH

Action:

Internal Audit

3.4

Johann Appel introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. The specific items below were highlighted and discussed by the
Committee.

Controls over Manual Revenue Adjustments: It was confirmed that third party data
feeds were part of a separate audit planned for January 2021. The present audit has
looked at manual revenue adjustments as a result of third party data but the team
has not yet validated the third party data processes.

Effectiveness of the Second Line during COVID-19: Ben Foat questioned whether the
work being undertaken to put a Controls Framework in place was happening quick
enough, noting there had been some delays in getting the project to the Project
Review Board. The audit report emphasised that there could not be any more delays.
It was agreed that this work should be taken to GE to discuss the need to develop
the Framework and the approach that should be taken.

Joiners, Movers & Leavers (JML): The Chair stressed the importance of completing
this work. The risks for internal movers needed to be mapped and resolved. Lisa
Cherry was asked to take this away.

Further actions were also highlighted as needed to be completed prior to the report
being submitted to the ARC:

Action:
RW
(agenda)
/3A/BF

Action:
Lc

Strictly Confidential Page 4 of 11
POL00423519
POL00423519

- The addition of Dan Zinner’s comment to the Branch Hub (Programme
Assurance) summary.

- On the outstanding data privacy (document retention) action, it needed to be
explained why the 31 October date had not been deliverable and what the new
date was. If the issue could not be remedied, there needed to be detail as to
what controls would be put in place. This should also be reflected in the Data
Governance paper (see paragraph 16).

Further, it was requested that:
- Johan Appel send the headline details of the Special Investigation to the Chair.
- Ben Foat and Jeff Smyth discuss offline the rules around deleting/not deleting
data for legal reasons.

The Committee otherwise NOTED the Combined Compliance and Internal Audit
updates for onward submission to the ARC.

Action:
JA

Action:
JA/IS

Action:

Action:
BF/JS

PCI-DSS and Cyber Security Update

PCI-DSS Programme Update

41

Jeff Smyth introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was taken
as read. IN response to questions from the Committee, it was confirmed the Ingencio
was to bear the cost of the programme over a certain threshold if they don’t deliver.
Fujitsu worked on a time/materials basis and the programme has previously signalled
a £1.2m cost risk to the ARC. The team were now requesting some changes to the
solution so more funding would be required and this was presently being costed.
However, the programme was making good progress and was hitting its milestones.
It was on track to go through accreditation and the payment solution had already
passed accreditation with Global Payments. The Committee otherwise NOTED the
PCI-DSS Programme Update for onward submission to the ARC.

Cyber Security

4.2

Tony Jowett introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. The Committee raised concerns about the number of people who had
skipped the phishing training (178) and had been lured by the fake phishing campaign
(391). It was explained that the numbers tended to go up and down a little, but
ultimately, there was no real progress and as such the team were doing a deeper root
cause analysis. The “volume” would also be “turned up” on the phishing comms. It
was also highlighted that phishing has continued to be more prevalent in the external
environment, particularly with COVID-19 scams.

It was requested that Tony Jowett provide a list of all individuals who have not done
the training to the relevant GE members. Jeff Smyth and Lisa Cherry also agreed to
flag the need for comms with Nick Read and highlight the issue with the Leadership
Group. Tony Jowett was further asked to update the paper for the ARC reflecting the
action that was being taken.

Tony Jowett also noted that his team were looking at tool to monitor culture shift and
it was agreed that he would liaise with HR on the on-going culture work to build this
into the business’ longer term defence plans. The Committee otherwise NOTED the
Cyber Security Update for onward submission to the ARC.

Action: TJ
Action:

Js/LC
Action: TJ

Action:
TI/LC

Joiners Movers Leavers (JML)

4.3

Tony Jowett introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. At the request of Jeff Smyth, Johann Appel confirmed that the work
undertaken was on track with the current roadmap, but that the roadmap was
incomplete and needed updating as part of an outstanding audit action. The highest
exposure areas were being prioritised (leavers and movers) due to the recent
organisational design work. Lisa Cherry confirmed that all processes for leavers and
movers were being reviewed to ensure all bases were covered and Tony Jowett and

Strictly Confidential Page 5 of 11
POL00423519
POL00423519

Helen Rhodes have weekly meetings with further regular touchpoints between the
relevant teams. The regular list of leavers shared with IT has been expanded to
include those at risk of redundancy such that this could also be monitored proactively.
Tony Jowett was asked to put the detail relating to the focus on leavers and movers
in the summary section of the paper for the ARC. The Committee otherwise NOTED
the paper for onward submission to the ARC.

Action:

Belfast Data Center (Horizon) Disaster Recovery Post Test Briefing

4.4

Gary Walker introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. It was explained that each year the business is required to test disaster
recovery at the Data Center in Belfast and this took place in August 2020. The test
was partially successful with most transactions (48/52) being able to be traded out
of the secondary site. Three transaction types failed and had to use the primary site.
Post testing, the team have identified all root causes and implemented fixes. Smaller
tests have then been carried out to check the fixes have worked. The current plan
was to not to do another test of this size and scale this financial year but to ensure
that as part of Belfast Exit there was equivalent activity in suitable point i.e. latter
point of the next calendar year. The Chair commented that this was one of the
business’ biggest risks and felt that another test should be done at Easter given the
recent test was only partially successful. Jeff Smyth explained that the test was
expensive (circa £75,000) and also destroys all change programme activity hosted in
the secondary data center. The Chair noted that £75k was a tiny sum compared to
the cost and reputational damage of losing branch trading. It was agreed that the GE
should agree the timing of the next test. The Committee otherwise NOTED the paper
for onward submission to the ARC.

Action:
RW
(agenda)
GwWw

Suspense Accounts

Mark Underwood introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was.
taken as read. In response to questions from the Committee, it was outlined that
since submission of the paper advice had been received from HSF and Peters & Peters.
This confirmed that the outcome of the review of suspense accounts did not mean
that the Historical Shortfalls Scheme needed to be altered, but that investigators
could consider issues relating to Moneygram and cheques. The Chair questioned
whether the KPMG report could and should be published. Mark Underwood explained
that a decision could be taken to disclose the entire report or a redacted version.
There was a question around the extent to which the report and its findings could
trigger disclosure obligations, although the vast majority of the report was not
disclosable. Mark Underwood was requested to ask the GE whether they wished the
report to be fully disclosed or a redacted version. (Post meeting note: Mark
Underwood has advised that the ARC would be asked to discuss whether the KMPG
report should be disclosed at its November 2020 meeting).

In conclusion, Mark Underwood explained that KPMG’s view was that any further
investigation would not uncover anything more and as such no further work on this
topic was recommended. The Committee otherwise NOTED the report for onward
submission to the ARC.

Action:
RW
(agenda)
MU

Notification of Transaction Correction error

Tim Perkins introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was taken
as read. It was explained that an individual had posted transaction corrections without
authorisation. The issue had been resolved and work was being undertaken to deal
with the individual involved and discussions were being had with Accenture to see if
a failsafe could be put in place to prevent this happening action. It was agreed that
the outcome of the investigation into the error should be published in the interests of
transparency (Tim Perkins to arrange). The Committee otherwise NOTED the paper.

Action:

Financial Reporting Controls Framework Update

Strictly Confidential Page 6 of 11
POL00423519
POL00423519

Tom Lee introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was taken
as read. The Committee noted that there were no concerns highlighted in the report
and NOTED the paper for onward submission to the ARC.

Agreed Upon Procedures

Tom Lee introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was taken
as read. The Committee challenged the number of findings in the Note Circulation
Scheme (NCS) area. Tom explained that the bulk of these related to evidence that
was not available due to COVID-19. The remaining issues were not major concerns
and had been shared with Bank of England, who were comfortable with the findings.
A detailed action plan has been set up and would be fully implemented by the end of
the month. Tom Lee was asked to include these points in the executive summary
section of the report. The Committee otherwise NOTED the report for onward
submission to the ARC.

Action:

Historical Matters Unit (HMU) Governance Review

Graham Hemmingway and Declan Salter introduced the paper, which had been
circulated previously and was taken as read. It was explained that much progress
had been made to set up the Governance of the new HMU, but it was not yet finalised.
It was noted that this should be made clear in the paper to the ARC. Further Ben Foat
explained that the HMU would follow the usual business policies and would only have
an exemption in terms of litigation. Notably Post Office has not signed up to the Crown
Services legal panel so this should be corrected. It was further noted that work was
ongoing to address the backfill and funding as business-as-usual resource was
continuing to support the HMU. The Committee otherwise NOTED the paper for
onwards submission to the ARC.

Action:

10.

Post Office Insurance Financial Conduct Authority Dual Pricing Change
Impact

Ed Dutton introduced the report, which had been circulated previously and was taken
as read. It was explained that the recent prohibition on “Price Walking” (competitive
new business prices followed by renewal prices increasing during contract) in Motor
and Home Insurance blows the traditional insurance business model out the water
and fundamentally means you cannot charge new customers different prices to
existing customers. It was expected that this prohibition would come into other
markets in due course. Post Office Insurance was still working through what this
meant for the business, but it was thought that there would still be opportunities for
competition as there would still be different views as to what a customer would cost.
A new business policy would also have a positive value, unlike before. There were
also strict rules on avoidance, but you can give vouchers for money off. The Chair
requested that the piece be brought back to the GE in due course from a commercial
and strategic perspective. At present, Post Office Insurance was still working through
what the changes meant for them and a Board Committee was being set up. The
impact would be clearer by January 2021. The Committee otherwise NOTED the
paper for onward submission to the ARC.

11.

Committee Terms of Reference

The Chair introduced the paper which had been circulated previously and was taken
as read. The Committee APPROVED the draft Terms of Reference for onward
submission to the GE, subject to the following amendments:
- It should be specifically called out that the Committee has oversight of the
HMU; and
- The membership should be updated to include: Alisdair Cameron, Ben Foat,
Jeff Smyth, Lisa Cherry, Amanda Jones and Cathy Mayor.

Action:

12.

Deepdive: Multiple Partner financial stability update

Amanda Jones introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. In response to questions from the Chair, it was explained that the use
of an external consultant was considered to provide insight as to what was really

Strictly Confidential Page 7 of 11
POL00423519
POL00423519

happening in a particular organisation vs. what can be ascertained from information
in the public domain. This was support with looking at trading statements and brokers
to help the business synthesise this information. The Chair was sceptical that this
would make much difference, but agreed that it could be used to show early “red
lights.”

Amanda Jones further explained that small retailers had done better than expected
during the COVID-19 crisis. However, WH Smiths were having some difficulties but
thought they were financially strong and well placed to recover. They have announced
25 high street closures, including six Post Offices. The business was already aware of
two of these. There was likely to be some noise around these as they were recent
franchises (Amanda Jones was asked to check the legal position regarding WH Smith
closing recently franchised branches). WH Smith had also indicated that there were
400 leases due to expire int eh next 2.5 years and they have negotiated with their
landlords to get a 45% reduction in rates. They have indicated there would be 25
store closures every year for the next three years. Furthermore, new core hours have
been formalised from January 2021 and the plan was to maintain these hours rather
than see more closures. The Committee otherwise NOTED the paper for onward
submission to the ARC.

Action:
AJ

13.

Deepdive: Transformation Office Change Update 2020

Dan Zinner introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was taken
as read. It was explained that the ARC had asked for programme update and
specifically wanted to know more about the Change Controls Framework. Saira
Burwood further outlined that the paper was seeking ARC support for the future work
to ensure sponsors and project leads were aware of their obligations under the change
lifecycle. Ultimately, the paper was an update on what had been achieved thus far
and the focusses for the next few months. The Committee NOTED the paper and the
only comment was that it might benefit from being shortened.

14,

Payzone Risk Report

Andrew Goddard introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. On the whole, the risk management in Payzone had improved and
there was now a better culture alongside monthly reviews of risks. The only area of
concern was network resilience (cyber security) and it was confirmed that Post Office
It has not yet done a comprehensive review of the Payzone network, but Andrew
Goddard explained there had been disaster recovery work done for its Vodafone
datacentres. A “hack” into the system was scheduled but had been postponed due to
COVID-19. Ben Foat noted the good progress Payzone had made with respect of
adopting Group Policies and questioned what operational processes were in place to
implement the policies. Andre Goddard confirmed that policy implementation was part
of management responsibilities and policies were being built into ways of working,
but the work was on-going. Mark Baldock further noted that work with the Payzone
Risk team had also gone well and the team were using the Post Office GRC tool. The
Committee otherwise NOTED the Payzone risk report for onward submission to the
ARC.

15.

Law & Trends Update

Ben Foat introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was taken
as read. The main issue that was highlighted related to the HMRC announcement in
September 2020 that VAT should be charged on settlement payments made to third
parties. The impact of this on recent settlements made to Postmasters as part of GLO
and otherwise was still being worked through and was further complicated by the
fact that some Postmasters had been employees. There was a need to work through
all settlement payments made since 2016. The Department of Business, Energy and
Industrial Strategy (BEIS) and UKGI were already aware. The Committee otherwise
NOTED the Law & Trends Update for onward submission to the ARC.

16.

Data Governance

Strictly Confidential Page 8 of 11
POL00423519
POL00423519

Jonathan Hill introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. It was explained that the update was requested by the ARC after the
31,000 boxes came to light that were previously unknown to the wider business to
consider the broader lens of data management and accountabilities. At present, the
remediation plan was outlined, but the sampling of the boxes had not yet started.
The challenge was the way Post Office currently structures its data and information

The Committee felt that the business needed to be sure that there was no data that
was otherwise unknown to the wider business being stored elsewhere. The following
points were discussed:

- The Committee requested that Procurement check that there are no other
contracts for data storage or archiving other than those with the Postal
Museum and Oasis.

- Writing out to branches for data might not be successful but that Tracy
Marshall (Postmaster Effectiveness Director) was to take ownership of these
requests to branches and Jonathan Hill was already working with Tracy to
agree how best to do this.

- A Record Retention programme had been completed earlier this year and
person was being undertaken to realign data owners to new roles.

- An individual needed to be assigned to go into each admin building to check
cupboards and rooms to ensure there was no data that was unknown.

- Jeff Smyth highlighted that this work could never be complete unless
electronic data was also considered (which would include digitising paper
records and tagging appropriately).

- Rod Williams explained that colleague’s emails when they leave can be
retrieved, but OneDrive data was harder to retrieve as this was deleted very
quickly. There needed to be debate on what was kept and for how long
considering data protection obligations.

Accordingly, the Legal, Data Protection, IT and Ruk Shah (MI & Analytics Director)
were asked to work on a coherent recommendation on how the data retention policy
should evolve and how it will be implemented. This should return to the RCC and ARC
in January 2021. Further, the current paper needed to articulate the next steps and
Process that will be worked through.

The Committee otherwise NOTED the report and APPROVED the next steps of:

- to complete the remediation activity on an expedited basis in coordination with
the Post-Conviction Disclosure Exercise and Historical Shortfall Scheme
Activity;

- for the legal team to conclude the agreed actions in respect of the assessment
of all boxes stored at Oasis, on behalf of Post Office; and

- for the GE to agree overall data governance accountability;

for onward submission to the ARC.

Action:
BB

Action:
JH

Action:
BF/JH/JS

Action:
JH

17.

Procurement Governance & Compliance Report

Barbara Brannon introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. The following points were highlighted:

- End User Computer Services (EUC): the project was re-baselined and as a
result the revised plan targeted April 2021, which was later than the date
provided to the Board. The Public Contract Regulations (PCR) risk was
unchanged but the exit service risk was higher and IT were looking at the plan.

- Common Digital Platform (CDP): The tender process has slipped and at
present the application support and development services were unlikely to
have been completely retendered or moved to other existing PCR compliant
contracts by December as proposed to GE and Board and there were concerns
in respect of resourcing and funding.

Strictly Confidential Page 9 of 11
POL00423519
POL00423519

- Smith & Williamson: This contract was just being finalised with Finance and
would be submitted to the Board.

- Audit Contract: A compliant extension option existed to extend but PWC were
currently working at risk preparing an audit plan for 2020/21 while commercial
terms are being negotiated.

- Cheque Clearing: (Greg Lewis joined for this update only) A risk exception
was submitted to Board in June 2020 to extend our cheque clearing services
with Barclays (12 month non-compliant extension). The service was needed
as Post Office has a contractual obligation to provide under the Banking
Framework until 2022 and have obligation with DLVA to accept cheques until
to 2023. It was a loss making service so the business has been exploring a
digital alternative. The recommendation was to complete an RFI before
Christmas to understand the market and this would require a six month
extension to the contract to adequately define requirements, allow for a
process to be run, and a possible transition process.

The Chair requested that these items should be covered in the paper for the Board,
noting that the business needed to be as transparent as possible. The paper
submitted to the Committee could be used, but should be cut down.

It was then explained that the ARC approved the following approach to Procurement
Risk Exceptions in September 2020:

1. Subthreshold exceptions (<£189,000) would be retrospectively reported to
RCC and ARC every two months. This will become a standing item at ARC
rather than an annual report. ARC will review this position within 6 months.

2. Above threshold risk exceptions (>£189,000) would continue to require prior
approval from Board

3. Above threshold Pipeline risks, sourcing options and recommendations,
progress reports for material procurements, and bi-annual strategic pipeline
report would continue to be reported to the Board.

Prior to March 2020, subthreshold exceptions were approved by the relevant GE
member and SLP; and the Procurement Director. These exceptions were logged, with
mitigation plans to bring into compliance where exceptions were made for an ongoing
requirement rather than a one-off event. The Committee was asked what approach
they now preferred for the subthreshold exceptions given the ARC approved
approach. The Committee discussed the approaches including: RCC approval,
continuing with GE, SLP and Procurement Director approval and GE approval.
Ultimately, it was felt that the ARC approved approach was to instil more proactive
and transparent behaviours and therefore having GE overnight would add value to
the approach.

Accordingly, the Committee:

- NOTED the that no Procurement Risk Exceptions have been submitted to the
Post Office Limited Board since September 2020 and the contracts in the
Procurement pipeline;

- APPROVED the approach to the cheque processing contract and the proposed
next steps as outlined, subject to this being included in the paper for the
Board;

- NOTED the alteration in governance approved by the ARC; and

- APPROVED that GE should approve any subthreshold risk exception requests
moving forwards at its monthly meetings.

Post meeting note: It was agreed with the Company Secretary that as the Board
report on Procurement would be near identical to the ARC report that the report would

Action:

Strictly Confidential Page 10 of 11
POL00423519
POL00423519

only be presented to the ARC but would also be shared separately with Lisa Harrington
as the only member of the Board not on the ARC.

18.

Policies for Approval:

Jonathan Hill introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. It was highlighted that the Freedom of Information (FOI) Policy was a
new policy and a lot of work had been done to operationalise it. It had been developed
as Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) Guidance recommended such a policy
and it provided a framework for colleagues to help them understand the importance
of FOI requests. Cathy Mayor flagged that the policy should include guidance on when
FOI requests would not be granted and it was explained that this was dealt with under
the roles and responsibilities section.

It was also noted that the Committee felt Post Office had too many policies.

As such, the following policies were APPROVED for onward submission to the ARC:
« Change Management;
¢ Conflicts of Interest;
e Protecting Personal Data; and
e Freedom of Information & Environmental Information Regulations.

19.

Directors & Officers Insurance Renewal

Ed Dyer introduced the paper which had been circulated previously and was taken as
read. It was confirmed that all insurance cover was now full yin place. The Chair
congratulated Ed on his hard work, particularly as the commercial insurance market
was very difficult at the moment. All cover is fully in place. The Committee otherwise
NOTED the report for onward submission to the ARC.

20.

Review of draft Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee meeting agenda for
24 November 2020

The draft ARC agenda for 24 November was NOTED.

21.

Any other Business

There was no other business.

Strictly Confidential Page 11 of 11
