POL00423574
POL00423574

© I

Post Office Limited
Risk and Compliance Committee Meeting

MINUTES OF A MEETING OF THE RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE (THE
“COMMITTEE”) OF POST OFFICE LIMITED (THE “COMPANY”) HELD ON 10 JULY 2018 AT
20 FINSBURY SREET, LONDON EC2Y 9AQ AT 10.00AM

Present: Jane MacLeod Chairman
Paula Vennells (PV) Group Chief Executive
Al Cameron (AC) Chief Financial and Operations Officer
Meredith Sharples (MS) (on behalf of Owen Woodley)
Tom Moran (TM) (on behalf of Debbie Smith)
I
I
I
I
In Attendance: Jenny Ellwood (JE) Risk Director i
Garry Hooton (GH) (on behalf of Johann Appel Head of I
Internal Audit) I
Jonathan Hill (JH) Compliance Director I
Paul Beaumont (PB) Senior Risk Manager
Barbara Brannon (BB) Procurement Director
Sally Smith (SS) MLRO & Head of Financial Crime
Lisa Toye Secretary
Apologies: Debbie Smith (DS) Chief Executive, Retail
Martin Kirke (MK) Group HR Director I
Owen Woodley (OW) Chief Executive, Financial Services and I
Telecoms
ACTION
1.

WELCOME, INTRODUCTION AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST

1. The Chairman welcomed those present to the meeting and confirmed there was a
quorum. There were no conflicts of interest declared.

1.2 I The Chairman introduced the topic of attendance at RCC meetings. The proposal
was that core membership for future meetings would be JM, AC and PV, plus a
representative of DS and OW. This would be subject to ongoing review of
effectiveness.

1.3. The Chairman initiated a discussion on frequency and timing of RCC meetings.
Currently there are 6 RCC meetings scheduled each year and 5 ARC meetings, of
which the May ARC was predominantly focussed on the annual financial report &
accounts. The RCC meetings therefore were not well aligned to the ARC meetings.
The proposal was to realign RCC to ARC so that there would be 4 RCC meetings
per year and the committee were asked to accommodate diary changes. This
proposal was accepted.

1.4 The Chairman explained to the Committee that the RCC was in the process of

Strictly Confidential
2,

2.2

3.1

©

POL00423574

POL00423574

Post Office Limited
Risk and Compliance Committee Meeting

changing the format of the information presented, so that where previously the
Committee would have reviewed a series of operational risk papers, these had
now been consolidated to 3 themes: Consolidated Risk paper including Change
Assurance; Consolidated Compliance paper including Financial Crime and
Financial Services Risk paper. Summary appendices of risks were still work in
progress. AC noted the new format and thanked everyone for the improved
quality of the papers.

ACTION LIST & MINUTES

The Action List Status Report was noted as accurate. There was only one action
due which was addressed in the meeting papers.

The Minutes of the previous meeting were discussed and JM described that the
placemats are due for quarterly refresh across the business where key issues are
highlighted so there is clarity on risks to the delivery of the strategy, including
external risks. The scoring is being worked on to be consistent across the business
and there will be an opportunity for deep dives reviewing risks that are current
and being managed and also risks coming down the line. Reference was made to
a paper focussing on our maturity model, tied to the challenge from ARC around
Corporate Governance with a comparison to where we are, and what would good
look like.

RISK UPDATE

Risk Report
JE introduced the consolidated Risk paper which had been circulated and a
discussion ensued
(a) Identity services: risk will change as the proposition changes and a risk
framework is built with regular placemat refresh. The strategy and
scorecard will be reviewed with a focus on RCC and ARC report on the

top risks affecting POL and the strategy. The dashboard is being_

developed, for example the Financial Crime will look across POL at more
than one functional area. Business MI and Risk MI to be brought
together to the October ARC meeting. Review of language and culture
and what the business does - ACTION JE to work with Amber Kelly.
Ongoing review of risk appetite, to be developed to help make business
decisions. To look at UK Corporate Code, not to follow per se but as a
guide with a gap analysis to recommend what would be right for POL.

(b) The placemat highlights were that after 70 workshops across the
business, 31 principal risks were identified with key themes of Business
Continuity and IT Disaster Recovery. The Committee were asked to
consider whether 31 was the right number or too high, and JE advised
that these would be consolidated into a more manageable number.

(c)  Deloittes have been engaged to complete some analysis on our change
delivery, looking at a June 2019 completion date but releasing quick
wins and improvements along the way. It was noted that the pack for
Investment Committee has improved and is driving a different

Strictly Confidential

JE

I

POL00423574
POL00423574

©

Post Office Limited
Risk and Compliance Committee Meeting

conversation now. The Committee agreed that the business cannot wait
until September 2019 to see benefits, and JE responded that quick wins
will be delivered throughout Deloitte’s engagement

(d) I The Committee embarked on a discussion around the principles of Agile
delivery and how these were not incompatible with governance and
control. It was agreed that proportionate and appropriate controls and
testing do not hinder Agile delivery and that POL needs to establish ways
of working for managing risk in an Agile environment. It was
acknowledged that Agile may not be consistently understood and that it
needs to be cultural to follow any particular method of project and
program delivery. Business SMEs need to be involved and embedding
risk and compliance people in hubs is effective although more resource
intensive.

(e) The discussion continued onto programs with dependencies on other
programs or other teams which can cause delay. It was considered that
if the Gating process was stronger these issues would be picked up JM
earlier. ACTION - invite TW back to RCC for update

(f) The RAG ratings were discussed and whether it would ever be
appropriate for a target RAG not to be green. The Committee concluded
that for Horizon, red is currently acceptable as a target because the risks
are known and understood.

(g) PV raised the issue of how to respond to the outputs of the Board Away
day. JM and JE are reviewing strategic risks.

(h) Discussion around ensuring the papers reflected the views of the
Committee.

4 INTERNAL AUDIT I

4.1 Audit Report I
GH invited any questions or discussion on the Internal Audit paper.
(a) PV noted that progress against plan looks on track at this point in the
year, however with holiday season approaching should the target be to
be more than 25% through the plan with 25% of time gone. JM
responded that IA have been running with vacancies, and noted that an
offer has been made now, and also that we have been changing our
audit suppliers. It was acknowledged that in Qi the business is always
finalising the prior year. PV asked whether a realistic target for the year
was 20 rather than 26. ACTION - JA to review and flag to ARC. JA
(b) I A discussion ensued on JA reports and how to ensure that the business
sees internal audit engagement as positive. It was noted that some
areas of the business have felt as if they are being criticised rather than
supported. Culturally we need the business to be clear that IA reports
are needed for the Board not just for the business area. PV stated that
where IA find something unsatisfactory it must be flagged to RCC and
that it is not acceptable for business areas not to comply and not to
reply to IA queries. AC agreed that IA must call out where things are
not working well. PV reiterated that the purpose of RCC and ARC is to
focus on areas that are non-compliant. ACTION - RCC agendas to be JM

Strictly Confidential
Sad.

Post Office Limited
Risk and Compliance Committee Meeting I

constructed to allow areas that are non-compliant to present to the
Committee.

(c) It was noted that there are some overdue actions which need to be
addressed. ACTION GH to update JM and AC on these, to raise at GE
with relevant GE member each week as necessary. Possible additional
RCC meeting where people with overdue actions to attend to provide
update. ACTION JM to discuss with GH/JA.

(d) Business Continuity Management was discussed and Tim Armit will be
coming to RCC in September with actions in place to update plans. It
was recognised that this area had started from a low base and currently
only has one person.

COMPLIANCE

Compliance Report

JH introduced a paper which consolidated Financial Services & Telecoms, Financial
Crime and Information Protection and Assurance. JH explained that the team
intend to include banking, identity and cyber security / cybercrime in this report
and that they are also working on a consolidated dashboard.

(a) Key areas are that the compliance universe is getting broader and
regulators are wanting more. JH noted that the CMA may get more
power in future to enforce competition and as POL gets more diverse
the scope of this paper may need to be reviewed.

(b) AC added that our branch literature is not always fully compliant and
POL need to agree a plan. PV stated that the fundamental problem was
the number of branches and number of products available, some of
which are very rarely sold.

(c) The discussion continued onto future developments including moves
onto Voice Over Internet Protocol and future targets for RMG to cease
use of copper networks which were recognised as Industry challenges

(d) JH informed the Committee that the GDPR program was on track to
deliver substantive compliance and updated that there were no issues
since the deep dive at the previous RCC.

(e) JH updated the Committee on PCI DSS where we have made a step
change and improved co-ordination between IT and IPA teams. JM
added that the biggest challenge is Computacenter demonstrating
compliance. They have a challenge to deliver on time, however, there
not yet a sufficient level of comfort on this.

(f) I On Financial Crime, the training has been rolled out and there is a
forward looking agenda. PV commented that the forward looking
regulatory agendas in the paper were very useful.

5.2 Vulnerable Customers Risk Assessment

PB joined the meeting to discuss and take questions on the vulnerable customers
report. PB updated the committee on the work that had been done with the
Alzheimer’s Society, Age UK, Sense, MIND, RNIB and other charities. POL is
learning and engaging and the number of customers affected is growing. Work

Strictly Confidential

POL00423574
POL00423574

GH

IM &
GH/JA

»

Post Office

POL00423574

POL00423574

Limited

Risk and Compliance Committee Meeting

has been done on what customers are capable of if they are engaged with
appropriately. POL have improved training and awareness. Customers can be
classed as vulnerable for a short period of time, e.g. after a bereavement and it
was recognised that some work needs to happen with the digital team to improve
accessibility of POL website. POL must ensure compliance with the Equalities Act
and the Committee noted that the target would be more than minimum
compliance.

(a) PB noted that some specific actions have been identified as ‘must do’s
which will be addressed first, and there are also ‘nice to have’s and
challenges. JH recommended working with the charities on how to make
digital more accessible for our vulnerable customers. PV stated that this
a clear part of POL’s social purpose and that we need to be leaders in
this area and POL will make budget available for this work. Culturally it
is important to POL and it is a priority for the business. PB is meeting
Amber Kelly to embed this into the culture work.

(b) JM confirmed that the team are working on timeframes for all actions.
Where there are challenges, they will report and bring back highlighting
where there are any issues getting agreement and confirming the
timings for delivery. PV requested PB escalate to JM if any issues need
to be raised at Monday GE meetings if barriers are being hit. ACTION -
update at next RCC with progress update. AC stated that he was
satisfied with the direction of travel.

CONTRACT PROCUREMENT GOVERNANCE UPDATE

BB joined the meeting to discuss the non-compliant contract procurement report.
In March the Committee had been informed that there was a large forward pipeline
of non-compliant contracts mostly around interim extensions relating to the
legacy of POL separation. Although £8.7m had been added to the value of the
non-compliant contracts, all material items had been included in the pipeline of
pending items presented in March.

(a) JM requested the number and value of non-compliant contracts could
be represented as a proportion by value or by number of contracts to
put it into context. AC noted that the number of non-compliant
contracts has not reduced and asked BB where the specific concerns
were. BB responded that RAPP (Brands) and GDPR / procurement risks
were the areas of concern. Another issue was in the marketing space
where POL had found ourselves in the press as non-compliant on the
print contract but had been misreported. ACTION - PV asked for a
noting paper on the print contract and also how many contracts have a
guaranteed minimum value. It was noted that some of our contracts
have volume commitments, e.g. fleet and travel and there are rebates
included. TM noted that where the business will target e.g. a 20%
reduction on T&S, once volumes have. reduced the business may only
realise a smaller % reduction in spend overall. ACTION TM to review

calculation with BB

Strictly Confidential

PB

BB

TM/BB

8.1

8.2

8.3

(b)
(c)
(d)

POL00423574

POL00423574

Post Office Limited
Risk and Compliance Committee Meeting

AC requested BB and Procurement team to be involved in Banking
Framework 2. ACTION - BB to pick up with Martin Kearsley.

A discussion on ATM strategy ensued and AC noted that the strategy
was due to be presented to GE.

JM commented that the report should only show exceptions in future
and AC requested that concerns are raised as well as noting areas.

UPDATES FOR NOTING

PCI-DSS Compliance Status Update was taken as read.

POLICIES FOR APPROVAL

SS joined the meeting

Gifts & Hospitality Policy

(a)

(b)

It was noted that the culture at POL needs to change in relation to
Gifts & Hospitality as the level of reporting is not what we would
expect, in particular with regard to offers that have been declined.
The Committee noted that the report exists to demonstrate what is in
place to prevent bribery so it is important to note what has been
offered and declined. AC noted that the report could be
misunderstood, if ARC assumed that everything included had been
accepted and it should clearly show what was declined or POL
employees paid for.

AC requested that the number of people present be included, to put
the value of the item into context. JH will ask for clarity.

Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy

(a)

Training staff was seen as an important control.

Whistleblowing Policy

(a)

(b)

SS presented this as a work in progress and the Committee had a
discussion around raising awareness. Most items come from our
agents rather than our employees although there are some issue
reported via Speak Up. AC posed the question of whether the
whistleblowing definition should be relaxed to include incidents of
Bullying and Harassment and also whether whistleblowing is
understood across the business. JM responded that the business has
used PV's blogs, posters and Yammer to reinforce the message. JM
commented that whistleblowing is for legal breaches and that as a
business if an item is reported through an incorrect channel, it will still
be referred appropriately. A range of channels exist for reporting
inappropriate behaviours. ACTION - SS to propose a programme of
communication. GE to raise awareness and SS to contact Amber Kelly
to include in cultural work.

PV asked whether Internal Audit have audited POL internal
communications. The Audit programme had been constructed to

Strictly Confidential

BB

ss

{

POL00423574
POL00423574
I

Post Office Limited
Risk and Compliance Committee Meeting

address high risk areas and communications had not been flagged as
high risk. PV to discuss integrated communications review with Mark
Davies. AC noted that people may understand less than it is assumed
that they do. JH noted that in the past it was part of the role of all
managers to visit 10 branches to communicate which had a large
impact although it was a costly exercise. JH to have a discussion with JH I
Debbie Smith on this matter. I

DECISION: the Committee approved the Anti Bribery & Corruption and
Whistleblowing Policies

(c) I Regarding IDD and PSD2, JH was asked to prepare a communication JH

for senior managers on what they are and the impact on POL. A 1 or 2
page report to be prepared and sent to the Committee.

9. FUTURE MEETINGS

This agenda item had been covered during the introduction I

10. ANY OTHER BUSINESS
There being no other business, the Chairman closed the meeting at 15:35.

Strictly Confidential

POL00423574
POL00423574

