POLO0060679
POL00060679

Message

From: Susan Crichton [IMCEAEX-
_O=MMS_OU=EXCHANGE+20ADMINISTRATIVE+20GROUP+20+28FYDIBOHF23SPDLT+29_CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=SUSAN+20CRICHTONCE
DC28-49AB-8FOF-BE423 7A4AD4F @C72A47. ingest.local]

on Susan Crichton <IMCEAEX-

behalf _O=MMS_OU=EXCHANGE+20ADMINISTRATIVE+20GROUP+20+28FYDIBOHF23SPDLT+29_CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=SUSAN+20CRICHTONCE

of DC28-49AB-8FOF-BE423 7A4AD4F @C72A47.ingest.local> [IMCEAEX-
_O=MMS_OU=EXCHANGE+20ADMINISTRATIVE+20GROUP+20+28FYDIBOHF23SPDLT+29_CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=SUSAN+20CRICHTONCE
DC28-49AB-8FOF-BE4237A4AD4F @C72A47.ingest.local]

Sent: 09/07/2013 10:4!

To: Hugh Flemington}

Subject:Fw: Fwd: Thoughts

From: Paula Vennells

Sent: Tuesday, July 09, 2013 10:42 AM

To: Susan Crichton; Mark R Davies; Alwen Lyons; Lesley J Sewell; Martin Edwards
Cc: Theresa Iles

Subject: Fwd: Thoughts

Mark, thank you for this.

All, if you could do something similar - half a dozen points on what you think we need to do next, re., your own
areas and overall. It will help define next steps. See below.

Susan, re., point one below - do you have a proposal/something in writing as to what the next legal steps are, or
is this referring to the general conversation last week re the external lawyers code of disclosure?

I spoke with Alice this morning: as I expected (and rightly) Alwen and I need to give an oral update to the
Board tonight and she would like a paper tabled and discussed next week at the Board meeting.

I will call Alwen shortly and then I expect we will need a next steps conference call this pm - but will confirm
after the call.

Paula
Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: Mark R Davies
Date: 9 July 2013 09:

>, Alwen Lyons
Martin

Subject: Thoughts

All

Some thoughts on next steps.

POL-0057158
POLO0060679
POL00060679

1. As well as the three initiatives we need something else which can somehow resolve one way
or another the suggestion of miscarriages of justice. In addition to the legal process Susan has
outlined.

2. SS will have to be involved: they have positioned themselves with the MPs as crucial
independent voice.

3. We need to find ways of supporting them in areas where thry do not have expertise,
particularly as the report is now more about training and support than Horizon issues.

4. That support needs to look with them at all the cases brought by MPs and JFSA and reach
conclusions by autumn.

5. Do we then need to resource independent team alongside SS, headed by a QC or some such to
produce the final report?

6. During period between now and autumn we need to offer meetings with the likes of Jo
Hamilton and others, and develop a comms strategy for the BBC.

All just views and thinking aloud but hope helpful.

Mark
Sent from my iPhone

POL-0057158
