POL00139691
POL00139691

From: Rob King

Sent: Mon 19/08/2013 6:08:22 PM (UTC)

To: Jarnail A Singh!

Subject: Fw: Regular Call re Horizon Issues

Attachment: Regular Call re Horizon Issues MEETING NOTES 19-07-13.doc
Attachment: Regular Call re Horizon Issues MEETING NOTES 24-07-13 (2).doc
Attachment: Regular Call re Horizon Issues MEETING NOTES 31-07-13.doc
Attachment: Regular Call re Horizon Issues MEETING NOTES 07-08-13.doc.
Attachment: Regular Call re Horizon Issues MEETING NOTES 14-08-13.doc
Jarnail,

Apologies if | seemed a little evasive earlier. To date | have worked to the remit of establishing a group whereby issues
and concerns are raised and recorded (see below). However with a initial mandate of not circulating notes made, it is
difficult to apply the usual governance on the process. Notes have been typed, actions captured and will be circulated.
This should provide the proper framework for resolving issues. | was under the impression that a working group would
be set up to deal with these, placing the weekly conference call superfluous. Investigators have been instructed to report
back any issues raised during interview. These will be fed through to legal and a record made of them. | still maintain
that security is not the best place though to resolve issues with the Horizon system. As you know John Scott is chairing
this con call going forward. It may be useful if you rely to John, Susans concerns. Speak tomorrow

Regards

Rob

From: Dave Posnett

Sent: Friday, August 16, 2013 11:02 AM
To: andrew.parsonsi
Cc: Rob King
Subject: Regular Call re Horizon Issues

Andy,

We discussed the imbedding of notes from the weekly Horizon issues meeting into the matrix held by
Rosie.

It was agreed that this wouldn't be the right format and that you would create an independent spreadsheet,
whereby the notes could be added each week and circulated to attendees each week before the
conference calls (so the spreadsheet would include all meeting notes, not just the most recent meeting).
As such, please find associated all notes that | or Security colleagues have collated (they are all password
protected ... let me know if you don’t have the password).

| would be grateful if you could instigate the spreadsheet and circulation to attendees.

For reference | list below all those who should attend the weekly meeting and/or substitutes should anyone
be unavailable ... please add if you know of other names.
Could | ask that at the top of the spreadsheet the following is copied/pasted or similar:

The following details the participants of the weekly ‘Regular Call re Horizon Issues’ (Wednesdays @
10.00am). Regular attendees from each team/function are responsible for ensuring a representative is

present.
Team/Function Attendees
Legal Rodric Williams, Jarnail Singh, Andrew Parsons, Marti
Financial Services Centre (FSC) Rod Ismay, Andrew Winn

Security Dave Posnett, Rob King, John M Scott
POL00139691
POL00139691

Communications Sophie Bialaszewski, Ruth X Barker
Network Nick Beal, Gayle A Peacock
Information Technology & Change (IT&C) Steve Beddoe, Jeff Burke

Network Business Support Centre (NBSC) Kendra Dickinson

NB: Other than yourself and Martin, all should have; ___..} email addresses. Not sure if you
have everyone’s email address so I’ve also put initials abov: people’s names where applicable ... let me
know if there’s any problems.

Many thanks.

Regards,

Dave Posnett | Accredited Financial Investigator

, 148 Old St, London, EC1V 9HQ

