POL00398199
POL00398199

Information Security
Strictly Confidential

Information Security (IS) Committee
05th June 2014 at 10:30 in Room 501 - 148 Old St

Attendees Julie George - Head of Information Security & Assurance — Chair
Alan Simpson — ISAG Compliance Support - Scribe

Malcolm Zack — Head of Internal Audit

Kevin Seller - Head of Government Innovations Programme
Toni Sless - representing John Scott - Head of Security

Andy Garner — Head of Managed Services

Roger Gale — Head of Crown Network

Nick Fox — Senior Manager, Customer Management

Adnan Killedar — Risk & Compliance

Rod Ismay — Head of Finance (dial in)

Apologies
Belinda Crowe — Compliance Partner

Michelle Ranger — HR Business Partner

Piero D’Agostino representing Head of Legal

Dave Hulbert — Head of IT Services.

Dave Mason — Head of Risk & Compliance

Elena R Nistor — IT Audits

Jonathan Hill - Head of Risk, Banking Regulation and Strategy, Financial Services
Peter Goodman — Head of Finance Operations

I Agenda Item Agenda Points Action

1 Introductions
Julie George welcomed everybody and reminded about the importance to All
attend this Committee and also the requirement to send a deputy if invitees
unable to attend.

2 Actions from previous meetings JG
The minutes from the previous meeting were approved.

Previous actions covered separately as below.

3 Information Security Policies JG

e As per the previous ISC meeting JG noted, again, that the AUP
(Acceptable Use Policy) has still not been signed off, A ‘Noting’ paper
has been sent to Risk & Compliance to facilitate the acceptance of the
risk. BYOD (Bring Your Own Device) policy is in planning stage by
ISAG. At the recent Risk & Compliance meeting ISAG were asked to
provide an acceptable option that is both in line with the policy and
acceptable to the Board. This has the backing of Paula Vennells.

4 Input from Working Party JG

No issues to escalate at this time.
Previous issues, noted as escalation items, covered under ‘Input from
JV/Supplier ISMF’s have been resolved.

5 Input from JV / Supplier ISMFs JG

JG noted that Atos will be undertaking the management of certain ISMFs
going forward, once information flow between the two organisations has been
agreed.

6 Current Audits

Information Security
Strictly Confidential

POL00398199
POL00398199

JG explained that:

1. POL ISAG is preparing for this year’s PCI DSS audit which is
scheduled to take place July/August with the reporting and certification
stage in October.

2. 18027000 audits will also be undertaken in a selection of branches
over the coming months in relation to Government Services.

Incidents

e Current list of open incidents was discussed at this meeting and 4 out
of the 10 open incidents requested for closure were agreed at this
meeting.

Regulators submissions to the authorities

1. Nothing to report at the time of this meeting

JH was
unable to
attend but

nothing
had been

sent to
the
committe
e for
notificatio
n

Any Other Business

1. AUP —covered under section 3 — Information Security policies

2. SharePoint issue re new Business Travel Policy rates for hotels
spread sheet. This was raised by MZ as a security issue due to the
Share Point document allowing users to edit the listed rates. Noted as
possibly an isolated incident and whilst not being business critical it
does raise concerns around the security of all Share Point sites and
the content. Paul Swanton confirmed the correct level of access is on
all the things we have but is only a small percentage of what is out
there. JG suggested that this be further investigated by the ISWP re
suitable solution.

3. RG raised the question as to whether Royal Mail employees still have
access to POL printers on the network. To be raised in the ISWP.

4. BIA/PIAs — (Business Impact and Privacy Impact - Assessments) —
JG noted that these are fairly new for the Post Office and will highlight
any criticalities of the systems as it is evident that the business is not
fully aware of what we have and who has responsibility , with regards
to assets, information, systems etc.. The first stage will be to engage
with ExCo and then this will be extended out to team members. This
exercise will provide better understanding of priorities and
responsibilities and the BIA will highlight associated risks. The initial
stage will commence next week, with the first report produced around
early July — for presentation to the Board.

5. Rod Ismay broached the subject of risks around use of Social media
by employees. JG noted that all are subject to the adherence to the
contents of POL policies and should be aware of the consequences. RI
noted the use of Twitter being used to raise concerns and issues, both
negative and positive. JG suggested this be raised in the ISWP for
progression.

6. AS to provide glossary of acronyms for ISC minutes to facilitate better
understanding of those terms used.

7. Rl noted the number of meetings that use projectors to provide
information, some of which is commercially sensitive which is visible
to those from outside the building via open/unshielded windows. To be
raised via the ISWP.

Information Security
Strictly Confidential

POL00398199
POL00398199

Glossary

ISC - Information Security Committee

ISWP - Information Security Working Party
BYOD - Bring Your Own Device

ISAG -— Information Security & Assurance Group
ISMF — Information Security Management Forum
PCI DSS - Payment Card Industry —- Data Security Standard
AUP - Acceptable Use Policy

BIA - Business Impact Assessment

PIA - Privacy Impact Assessment

FOoG - Front Office of Government

DP - Data Protection

DPA — Data Protection Act

Next
Meetings

July 04" Room 506, 148 Old Street - 10:30 - 12:00
August 07" Room 202, 148 Old St - 09;30 - 11:00
September 04", Room 311, 148 Old St. 09:30 - 11;00

Actions from previous meetings:

Update on outstanding actions:

1. ACTION (250713): Progress ownership of the Home Office Clearing (currently with the
project) with HR or Security. The aspiration is to transfer to HR, but they need
headcount. HR has taken external advice.

03 03 14 - owner in HR to be found, security clearances on-going, reassign to Jonathan
Hill

08 05 14 - John Scott's Security team still undertake Security Check Clearances on
behalf of the business and FO0G, however, they are awaiting an update from our HR
Business Manager as to progress. These were previously managed by Group.
Discussions are on-going with Michelle Ranger and escalated to Joe Connor. TS noted
that this was an item for discussion in today’s SLT meeting. TS took an action to
provide an update following today’s SLT.

05 06 14 - TS confirmed that this action point is still ‘on-going’ and although it has been
escalated it is dependent on the outcome of the current Security Team restructure JG
noted that this has been highlighted to Lesley Sewell via ExCo.

2. ACTION (250713): The Information Security e-learning non-completions will now be
escalated to their line managers. Will be progressed by Claire Davies.
03 03 14 — Claire Davies still chasing — on-going.
08 05 14 — Noted that some colleagues did not receive the initial cascade so will
account for a certain percentage of failings. Katie Barber is aware of those non-
receivers and will take an action to send list of all Finance team non- completions to
Jonathan Hill.
05 06 14 -— No update available at time of this meeting. AS to chase up with Katie
Barber.
Lack of access for contractors is also being investigated by HR

3. ACTION (081013): The P6 Requests that will need to be transitioned to the Service
Desk. This is being progressed by Dave King.
03 03 14 — On-going, will be transferred to Service Desk eventually.
08 05 14 — Service Desk not accepting P6 requests as yet but there is an interim
measure in place currently. JH raised concerns regarding customers’ information being
given to Service Desks in Manila despite assurances to the contrary. There is no plan to
move services to Manila and no programme to share as not available. Support for
Horizon ceases from June 2014.
05 06 14 — Update to be provided for next ISC meeting.

KS-
reassigne
dTs

JG

JG/DK

JG
reassigne
dto BH

Information Security
Strictly Confidential

POL00398199
POL00398199

4. ACTION (071113): Investigate how business and Grapevine incidents can be aligned
with the SDM12 IT incidents.
03 03 14 - On-going
08 05 14 — No progression on this one. Tender process underway so not a priority. BH
to speak with Dave Pardoe in POL Security to discuss further.
05 06 14 — No further progress. AS to chase for update from BH and ensure that Andy
Garner copied in on any progress. AG also queried if the correct product had been
purchased and whether any due diligence had been attached to the purchase of the
new Incident Management System tool.

Closed/Completed Action Points from previous meeting:

ACTION (250713): Belinda suggested that some of these documents should potentially
be published on the external website (linked to Fol). This will be discussed with
Mark Davies.

03 03 14 — No update available at time of this meeting. On-going.

08 05 14 - No update available at time of this meeting, suggestion is that we ask
for closure on this since it is an FOI suggestion and we don’t deal with FOI

15 05 14 — Update received from BC stating that it was not possible to clear this
AP as, previously, it was pending an ExCo decision on the Scheme. This decision
has now been made and Mike Granville is progressing this work. MG has been
informed that BC is providing further input and also that there will be a need to
factor in further liaison with this Group should he wish to publish relevant security
policies. BC agreed closure on that basis.

ACTION (071113): The Committee agreed that the analysis of the 14 key system
interfaces will need to complete sooner (if needed with prioritisation from Lesley
Sewell), which will be explained to Kevin.

03 03 14 — analysis of 14 key system interfaces — needs clarification. On-going.

08 05 14 - Commencing BIA/PIA’s across the business with rollout expected from
June.

05 06 14 — Updated under A.O.B. AP Closed.

BC

