POL00100337

POL00100337

FILE NOTE: MEETING WITH SS
MONDAY 24™ FEBRUARY AT 1:00PM

IN ATTENANCE: PAULA VENELLS (PV)

CHRIS AUJARD (CA)
RON WARMINGTON
IAN HENDERSON

The meeting was held at PV’s request in order to discuss the progress of the mediation
scheme with SS. PV explained that there were a number of areas that she wanted to discuss
including the letter of engagement, the pressure from ShEx, the Board and timescales.
Overall the meeting was friendly with what appeared to real engagement by SS.

It was noted by PV that the projected level of claims was currently c. £100m, in response to
which SS noted that their back of the envelope calculation was of the order of £25 to £50m.
PV observed that this was a long way from the figures that were in mind when the scheme
was established, which were much smaller, and more of the nature of a “token” with an
apology. Moreover, it was difficult to imagine that the Board or Shex would countenance the
payments of large scale amounts by way of compensation.

It was acknowledged by SS that some advisers were clearly “trying it on”, with unmeritorious
claims. That said, there were a number of cases, involving criminal prosecutions, where SS
felt that the level of compensation payable might be quite significant.

A discussion was then held as to timescales, and the PV expressed concerned that the SS
would be unable to meet the deadlines prescribed by the scheme and have matters
wrapped up by October. SS commented that although the preparation of a “thematic”
report has reduced their workload significantly, they did not now feel that they could now
achieve closure of the scheme by October. There were a number of reasons for this, but
fundamentally it was because of the volume of the case work, and the fact that there were
only 2 of them with in-depth knowledge of the workings of POL. In their view, “throwing
more bodies at the job” would not be the solution. Although they had said for some time
that there were three of them, 'Chris' had not yet signed the NDA and even then, they
envisaged it would be difficult to on-board him/would be a while before he was useful to
them.

This led onto a (cordial) discussion of whether it would be possible at this stage to re-think
the design of the scheme so that it dealt with applications in a more efficient manner, or
whether it would be possible to triage cases so as to deal with them in blocks, or by thematic
issue, or otherwise. Several ideas were considered briefly. The possibility of engaging on of
the big accountancy firms to review the reports prepared by POL was discussed (with a view
to leaving SS to focus on the thematic report), though no conclusion reached.
POL00100337
POL00100337

6. SS did note that in their view a number of the applicants were expecting the scheme to fail,
but were using it to gather more information about POL and the processes with a view to
launching legal actions at a later date. They specifically referred to Shoesmiths.

7. Finally, the contents of the thematic report was considered with PV asking that SS consider
whether it would be possible to reduce the number of themes significantly; SS agreed to
come back on this matter soon, and offered up a further meeting if that would be helpful.
Specifically RW stated that there were artificial distinctions, where 2/3 cases could be
grouped as transactional.

8. Agreed might be a good idea to meet next week. Poss with TH.

Chris Aujard
