POL00116381
POL00116381

From: Belinda Crowe[IMCEAEX-
_O=MMS_OU=EXCHANGE+20ADMINISTRATIVE+20GROUP+20+28FY DIBOHF23SPDLT+29
_CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=BELINDA+20CROWE79B93F 1 1-569F-4526-A078-
F5B4958A8917220@C72A47 ingest.local]

Sent: Fri 21/03/2014 8:49:15 PM (UTC)

To: Paula Vennells[paula.vent
Aujard[christopher.aujard;
Sophie Bialaszewski[sophi
Cc: David Olive--(david.oliver
Edwards[martin.edward:

[mark.r.davies!

Subject: Fwd: Draft approved by James for MPs' meeting

Please see below. This is where I got to with Janet. Later than hoped following an IT glitch. I not sure whether
it will work or not

I spoke to Tony who would be happy to be quoted as being keen to ensure that the progress of the Scheme is
only discussed in the broadest terms and that he considers that it is progressing as well as might be expected. It
might be an idea to quote him as that may helpJFSA and Second Sight.

It is James' meeting and therefore he can say what he wants but at least we have recorded the fact that we will
not be going into too much detail. It also serves as a reminder that we want to discuss the branch support
programme as, Paula, you told James you wanted to do in January.

If anyone thinks I should have made the points differently or has other views please let meknow and I will be
happy to go back to Janet.

Best wishes
Belinda

Belinda Crowe

Begin forwarded message:

From: Belinda Crowe <belinda.crow
Date: 21 March 2014 20:40:16 GM
To: "WALKER, Janet" <janet.walke’
Ce: David Oliveri=idavid.oli

Subject: Re: Draft approved by James for MPs' meeting

Hi Janet
When we spoke you asked that I send you my suggested text. Please see below. Sorry for the delay.

Iam suggesting we omit the sentence which says that the meeting is an opportunity to learn about how the
mediation scheme is progressing. Paula is keen to meet MPs and answer their questions. She is happy to discuss
the Scheme in general terms and also, as she discussed with James when they met in January, the changes that
have been made as part of the Branch Support Programme.
POL00116381
POL00116381

In addition, we have appointed an independent Chair who would only be happy for progress of the Scheme to be
discussed in the very broadest terms, especially as the Scheme is at a delicate stage, with the first Second Sight
reports expected in the next few weeks. I know Paula and James touched on this when they spoke last week.

So it might be better if the reminder is not specifically focussed on the Scheme but left in more general terms
(consistent with the agenda) whilst still making the point about individual cases which I know James was keen to
make.

You said that James would be unable to look at this until Monday. I shall be away but have copied David who
will be able to pick this up with you Monday if that would be helpful.

Lhope the meeting goes well.

Dear Colleague

A brief reminder of our meeting on Monday 24 March, at 5.45 pm in Room T, Portcullis House, with Post
Office, Second Sight and JFSA. I hope you can attend, or send a representative. It is important, however, to
note that both for reasons of confidentiality and because case investigations remain in progress, individual cases
cannot be discussed.

The Agenda will be:
5. 0: Welcome and Introduction — James Arbuthnot
Update from Post Office — Paula Vennells, CEO

10-6 Update - Second Sight forensic accountants
6.15 — 6.20: Update — Alan Bates, JFSA

6.20—- Q&A
6.45 sharp - close

Best wishes
Belinda

Belinda Crowe
148 Old St

‘Delinda.cro

On 21 Mar 2014, at 16:17, "WALKER, Janet" <janet.walke: i wrote:

Belinda

James is content with the following. Can you let me know your thoughts please?
Janet

Dear Colleague,

A brief reminder of our meeting on Monday 24 March, at 5.45 pm in Room T,
Portcullis House, with Post Office, Second Sight and JFSA. The meeting will offer
POL00116381
POL00116381

the opportunity to learn how the Post Office mediation scheme is progressing and
to hear from the Post Office, Second Sight, and the Justice for SubPostmasters
Alliance. It is important, however, to note that both for reasons of confidentiality
and because case investigations remain in progress rather than being concluded,
individual cases cannot be discussed.

The Agenda will be:

5.45 — 5.50: Welcome and Introduction — James Arbuthnot
5.50 — 6.10: Update from Post Office - Paula Vennells, CEO
6.10 - 6.15: Update - Second Sight forensic accountants
6.15 — 6.20: Update — Alan Bates, JFSA

6.20 - Q&A

6.45 sharp — close

I look forward to seeing you there.
Yours ever,
James

UK Parliament Disclaimer:

This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please notify the sender
and delete it from your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not permitted. This e-mail
has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted for any damage caused by any virus transmitted by
this e-mail

UK Parliament Disclaimer:

This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please notify the sender and delete it
from your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not permitted. This e-mail has been checked for viruses,
but no liability is accepted for any damage caused by any virus transmitted by this e-mail.

UK Parliament Disclaimer:

This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please notify the sender and delete it from your system
Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not permitted. This e-mail has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted for any
damage caused by any virus transmitted by this e-mail
