POL00115976
POL00115976

From: Mark R Davies.

Sent: Sun 07/07/2013 8:14:42 AM (UTC)
To: Martin Edwards{_”

Subject: Re: Proposed way forward
Thanks!

This is where I have got to. I haven't included anything about legal review of past cases. I don't think we can go
that far in writing. Thoughts? I put in this sentence in relation to the working party

(The Post Office commits to take any necessary or relevant action resulting from these reviews).

I think the below could go to AB but if it did I would suggest that we also send to JA via Janet at the same time
as it would undoubtedly be shared.

I'd be concerned about sending it though without input from Susan.
Mark

Statement

The Post Office today issued the following statement in response to the publication of an interim report into
alleged problems with the Horizon computer system which is used to record transactions in the post office
branch network.

The report is being published by an external firm, Second Sight, who were commissioned by the Post Office last
year. The interim report is based on a review of four of 47 cases being considered.

The report confirms that no systemic problems have been found in relation to the Horizon system, but suggests
that the Post Office should examine its support and training processes for subpostmasters.

Post Office chief executive Paula Vennells said:

"We commissioned this independent review to address concerns that have been raised about the Horizon system
and while we do not accept all of its content or conclusions, we welcome its publication.

"The Post Office is committed to supporting its people and improving the way we do so.The interim review
makes clear that the Horizon computer system functions effectively across our network. As the review notes, it is
used by around 68,000 people in more than 11,500 branches, successfully processing more than six million
transactions every day. The review underlines our cause for confidence in the system.

"It does however raise questions about the training and support we have offered to subpostmasters and we are
determined to address these issues.

"The people who work in the post office network in communities across the country are the lifeblood of our
business and we take our responsibilities to them very seriously.

"We therefore regret very much any concerns we may have caused to any subpostmaster who has felt that our
standards of support or training have not met their needs, and we are grateful to James Arbuthnot MP and the
Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance for raising these issues with us.
POL00115976
POL00115976

"In many of these cases I am confident that steps have already been taken which have improved support and
training but we are always open to new ways of improving how we do business to ensure the Post Office remains
as trusted and effective in its communities as it ever was.

"So we will make further improvements in this area and take better account of individual requirements and
circumstances going forward."

The Post Office is proposing to respond to the Second Sight report with three new initiatives aimed at addressing
historic issues, improving future processes and examining potential structural changes to support subpostmasters:

1. The creation of a working party to work collaboratively to complete the review of past cases started by
Second Sight last year. This would examine the themes identified by Second Sight and consider all cases brought
forward by the JFSA and MPs, and any new themes which emerge. The JFSA will be invited to join this working
party. Its report would be completed by the autumn. (The Post Office commits to take any necessary or relevant
action resulting from these reviews).

2. A review chaired by an independent figure to determine how an independent safety net might be introduced to
adjudicate in disputed cases in the future. The JFSA would be invited to take part in this review. The review
would be responsible for working to agree scope and Terms of Reference for this role or function.

3. A new Branch User Forum to provide a way for subpostmasters and others to raise concerns around business
processes, training and support at the highest level. It will be chaired by a member of our Executive Committee
and report to that committee. A key task for this forum will be to review support processes and training to
ensure they meet the standards expected of the Post Office.

Ms Vennells added: “We are determined to learn from the Second Sight review and hope the action we are
already taking in response will demonstrate our commitment to continually improving the way we support all
those who work in our unrivalled branch network.

"While we as a business must take action when there is evidence of wrongdoing, I do want to ensure that there
are avenues available for subpostmasters to take which could in certain circumstances avoid legal proceedings."

Sent from my iPad

On 7 Jul 2013, at 08:34, "Martin Edwards" wrote:

Spot on!
POL00115976
POL00115976

Martin Edwards
Chief of Staff to the Chief Executive
Post Office

On 7 Jul 2013, at 08:29, "Mark R Davies" < wrote:

I thought I would email her direct about this - see below. Honestly, I think there is
danger in this for her.

Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:
From: Mark R Davies
Date: 7 July 2013 08

To: Paula Vennells
Subject: Re: Proposed way forward

Hi Paula

Could we have a word at some point today to discuss this, and
specifically how far we go in terms of the wording below? I'm sending
this just to you at this stage.

Iam very concerned that we may get to a position where we go so far in
our commitments that we actually fuel the story and turn it into
something bigger than it is. I am not at all complacent about the issues,
but there is real danger in going too far in commitments about past
cases.

I say this for two reasons:

- first the substance of the report doesn't justify this response. Indeed the
report is at such a level that our current media strategy would mean
there would be some coverage, but not very much (the usual suspects).
If we say publicly that we will look at past cases (and whatever we say
to JA or JFSA will be public) whether from recent history or going
further back, we will open this up very significantly, into front page
news. In media terms it becomes mainstream, very high profile. It would
also give JA a very strong case for asking for a Parliamentary statement
from BIS.

- my second concern is the impact that this would have more broadly. It
would have the "ballistic" impact which AB fears. It could lead to a very
public narrative about the very nature of the business, raising questions
about Horizon (the reality of what SS has found would be
misunderstood) and having an impact on public views about the PO and
really widening the issue to the whole network.

The SS report would become irrelevant: in media terms it is the
impression which counts (I was talking to the BBC's comms director last
night about very similar issues), and the impression would be of a PO
which doesn't have confidence/trust in its systems or processes, with the
impact that could have on customer views of us.

Ire read the SS report last night. It is a poor piece of work, but its over-
riding finding is to support Horizon and urge us to improve our
processes. But there isn't cause in there to question confidence in us. We
can manage this in media terms in such a way that it doesn't escalate into
a bigger issue, while having the right conversations with AB and JA.

Perhaps we can speak later?

Mark
Sent from my iPad

On 6 Jul 2013, at 22:46, "Paula Vennells"

Hi, thank you for the inputs today. Susan I need your
thoughts on the note below especially 1) and 2) please and
the questions at the end of the mail.

I think we have the following which is a variant:

1) a working party over the next three/four months. This
comprises PO working collaboratively with the JFSA and
does three things:

+. Firstly explores the SS (8) themes for improvement (can
we get less than 8?) and agrees how they can be
implemented.

+ Secondly, looks at the remaining past cases with JFSA
(and MPs if they wish) to see if either further themes or new
evidence emerge.

+. Thirdly, our external lawyers review all prosecutions in
the past 12/18 months since PO has been independent of
RM, in the light of the SS findings. The JFSA/PO working
group reviews the findings.

[Why would they not review all cases of false accounting,
eg., over the last 5-10 years, especially where the amounts
have been 'small'? I assume ‘large’ amounts would be less
likely to get away with saying they were muddle-headed and
not helped? But could we review all? It is the false
accounting charge JA was most concerned about.]

+ Does the working party update JA in the autumn?

2) setting up of a review (chaired by PB/MO'C type) again
via joint working between PO and JFSA, to determine how

POL00115976
POL00115976
an independent safety net might be introduced ie., a
commitment to an independent adjudicator or (non-
statutory) ombudsman and the clear intention to agree
scope and ToR.

3) the future introduction of an ongoing branch user group,
once the working party has completed it's task. This will
ensure ongoing independent involvement of Spmrs/(inc
JFSA if they would like) to ensure the business listens to
and acts upon issues as they arise; and as importantly,
consults users on future systems planning and changes.

[4) a statement that although the system has been proved to
have no systemic issues, and our training, support processes
and helplines have worked for most of the 50-60000
colleagues over the past decade, we are nonetheless
genuinely sorry that some of our Spmrs, who were
struggling did not feel we offered them sufficient help and
support when they needed it. And that we are grateful to
JFSA and JA for highlighting the issues. Many are historic
and already improved but we are always open to new ways
to improve how we do business to ensure the PO stays as
trusted and effective in its communities as it ever was.]

Last thought: if we can draft this into something I could
send to Alan Bates ‘in confidence’, it would get us to a
better place in agreeing the press statement and way
through with JA on Monday. Could Martin try and corral
views into a draft by Sunday early pm? The more I speak
with him the better I feel it will be.

Susan, would we ever ask the lawyers to consider reviewing
past prosecutions? Is that what we are talking about in 1)
above but simply not using the terms? If not, why would it
be different? Of our 500 prosecutions, how many are false
accounting? (For clarity these are open questions - just want
to know the answers, not an indication that I want us to do
so.)

Thanks, Paula

Sent from my iPad

"Martin Edwards"
wrote:

On 6 Jul 2013, at 21:08

Hmm, the boundaries between these groups are
getting quite blurred and confusing (at least in
my mind!).

I thought the focus of the working group

POL00115976
POL00115976
involving the JFSA would be primarily thematic
(i.e. the 8 or so themes which emerged from
the SS process) - rather than focussing on
resolving specific cases, which we would pick
up through the seperate 1:1 briefings with MPs.
The description below appears to shift it more
towards the latter. Perhaps this is an academic
distinction which we can't sustain in practice,
but it certainly feels like safer territory to have
the JFSA focussing on themes to do with
training and support (which would then morph
into the branch user forum) rather than
individual cases...

Or have I misunderstood?

We also need to think about how the review of
past cases by our external lawyers plays into
the messaging (if at all). Certainly not
something we would put in our proactive media
statement I would have thought, but would we
refer to this in meetings as an avenue if pushed
by MPs or the JFSA?

Martin

Martin Edwards
Chief of Staff to the Chief Executive
Post Office

On 6 Jul 2013, at 18:18, "Mark R Davies"
oo ee "wrote:

I think that is the working group
(number 2 below).

Sent from my iPad

On 6 Jul 2013, at 17:53, "Alwen
Lyons"

wrote:

I think the only thing
that is missing from
James' agenda maybe
not Alan's is what we
do about past cases to
scorch the suggestion

POL00115976
POL00115976
os unfair convictions

Thanks
Alwen

Alwen Lyons
Company Secretary
GRO.

Sent from Blackberry

From: Mark R Davies
Sent: Saturday, July
06, 2013 04:46 PM

To: Paula Vennells

Cc: Martin Edwards;
Mark R Davies; Lesley J
Sewell; Susan Crichton;
Alwen Lyons; Theresa
lles

Subject: Re: Proposed
way forward

Hi Paula

I think this points to
the need for our
package of measures
to include two and
possibly three new
initiatives:

1. A Branch User
Forum - for existing
users to share views,
discuss issues,
examine processes
etc.. Chaired by Exco
and reporting to
Exco. But this doesn't
cover historic issues
(ie the JFSA and MP
cases) so we could
also have (2)

2. A working party,
to use Alan's phrase,
to complete the MP
and JFSA cases. This
could "take over" the
Second Sight review
(perhaps involving
them but perhaps not

POL00115976
POL00115976
as they have
effectively "cleared"
Horizon, the remit of
their inquiry). This
would involve the
JFSA and us working
collaboratively on the
remaining cases. We
might wish to include
an external party in
this too (a PWC?).
This is the area of
greatest risk - looking
back at historic cases
which have gone
through the courts.
But it is also
completing the job we
asked SS to do.

3. A review by a Mike
o Connor or Patrick
Burns figure to
consider potential
independent levers
which could be
developed to give
SPMRs a means of
independent
adjudication or (non
statutory)
ombudsman.

This package, it feels
to me, covers all
bases. It looks ahead
to fix internal issues
and create
independent balancing
view, but it also
completes the review
and has the potential
for doing so with SS
playing a different, or
no, role.

It is also a compelling
package for media,
which handled
carefully, could
contain the story.

POL00115976
POL00115976
Grateful for views.

Mark

Sent from my iPad

On 6 Jul 2013, at
10:35, "Paula
Vennells"

FYI and
for any
thoughts
pls

Paula
Sent from
my iPad

Begin
forwarde
d

message:

From: Paula Vennells

Date: 6 July 2013 1
To: Alan Bates ¢
Subject: Re: Proposed way forward

Alan, thank you for the note. Yes, I thought the
meeting with James was positive too. My main concern
is still how we manage the publicity, to avoid - as you
said - it ‘going ballistic’.

We had a useful conversation re a statement from
James with quotes from you and me, or possible joint
statement. And agreed we would pick up again on
Monday.

Ours is now bring re-worked in the light of that and as
we liaise with SS over the weekend on some changes
to the report where it is factually inaccurate. I am
hopeful these will be addressed.

Once I have a final draft, I would be happy to send
across to you.

POL00115976
POL00115976
Tt would be good to meet on Monday. And as I haven't
met Kay, then I would be happy to extend the meeting
to include her and I would bring Alwen Lyons, who is

our Company Secretary - Alwen has been the key lead
on the liaison with James' office.

In the meantime, I hope you enjoy the glorious weather -
at last!

Paula

Ps. You were on my list to call today but I imagine this
email exchange is sufficient now? However, if you
would like to speak at any time, don't hesitate to text
me.

Sent from my iPad

On 6 Jul 2013, at 09:51, "Alan Bates"
i + wrote:

Hello Paula

I understand the meeting with James Arbuthnot
went well on Friday and I believe he will be
discussing his views with me on Monday morning.

I am sure you will agree that it is important that we
have even an outline document of the proposed
way forward we have discussed, before the MPs'
meeting. As soon as it is available, I would
appreciate seeing your version of what is proposed,
hopefully amended to address the comment below.

Looking through my notes from our last
conversation, there is an early item of concern, that
being the name of the panel which you referred to
as the 'user group’. Whilst I can appreciate you
want such a group to continue on into the future, at
which time such a name may be suitable. Initially,
and whilst it is also looking at the issues
surrounding the report and the cases, possibly 'task
group' or ‘working party' might be more accurate,
as technically, the bulk of JFSA are ex users, and
others will no doubt pick up on the name. I could
offer 'review board’, but I could see that might not
be acceptable.

Regarding Monday 8", do you still want to meet? If
we do meet, and others are to attend, I would like
Kay Linnell, who has been working with us for the

POL00115976
POL00115976
POL00115976
POL00115976

last year, to accompany me. With travel
arrangement to finalise, I would appreciate a
response to that point as soon as you are able to let
me know.

Regards

Alan
