POL00027800
POL00027800

To: Paula Vennell

Ce: David Olivert! Chris M

llest
From: Chris Aujard[imceaex-
_0=mms_ou=exchange+20administrative+20group+20+28fydibohf23spdit+29_cn=recipients_cn=christopher+20aa0452485-80b7-40d2-
ade7-6f6feae19cc3f88@c72a47.ingest.local]

Sent: Fri 28 3 2014 6:17:59 PM (UTC)

Subject: Re: Sparrow update

Hi Paula - the core team for the review meeting works for me. That said (David) I am really keen to "capture" the
constructive thoughts of all beforehand, so can we build express steps into the process somehow to make sure we do? Bon
weekend Chris

Sent from my iPhone

On 28 Mar 2014, at 05:26 pm, "Paula Vennells" <

David, thanks for trying to set up a meeting. I agree we need one.

I would like to be clear that when we do, you and the team will walk me through a draft plan, which other
senior managers/directors will have had input to already. And if that is the case, we will have a much more
productive, shorter and smaller meeting. I will add most value where I can iterate and challenge the options
ie., not as part of a working meeting. I'd like Chris A to confirm but it seems to me that the core is Mark,
Chris A, me, for the review meeting.

Are you ok with this?
Any queries - pls ask.

Re the points below, thank you for letting us know. I guess not a surprise but serious and disappointing. I did
say to Chris A and to Alice that I should probably have a call with TH now. He promised to get back to me in
four weeks and knows this is a big deal for us. It is 5 weeks already. I would appreciate some thoughts.
(Chris A - you might drop me a note or stop by on Monday - we'll need to get diary work started to line up
with TH.) Chris D: I'm concerned that we continue to pay for sub-standard work, could you think about what
opportunities there might be to contain/carefully fire a shot across their bows?

And it's Friday pm. So I hope everyone has a good weekend!

Paula

Sent from my iPad

wrote:

All,
I wanted to send you all a quick update on where things have got to with Second Sight.

e Second Sight were due to deliver their thematic report and the factual briefing report on 26
March.

@ They have not delivered either report yet.

e We had a conference call of the Working Group yesterday where they informed us that neither
report would be ready by 1 April for the next face to face session of the Working Group.

@ They came under a lot of pressure over their delivery â€” primarily from Tony Hooper and JFSA.

e We have now agreed that we will review the Post Office factual contribution (which we had
POL00027800
POL00027800

provided SS with on 13 March to help them with their fact piece) at the working group on 1 April
and will discuss the problems second sight are having in producing a thematic report.

In following up the Board actions we are moving to work up the options and the spec of the assurance
piece and we are looking to convene a meeting of this group at the tail end of next week to review the
work.

Regards
David

David Oliver
Programme Manager
Initial Complaint and Mediation Scheme

