POL00114796
POL00114796

@

POST OFFICE LIMITED

MINUTES OF A MEETING OF THE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF
POST OFFICE LIMITED HELD ON TUESDAY 12* JULY 2022 AT 20 FINSBURY STREET,
LONDON EC2Y 9AQ AT 09:00 AM

Present: Invited Attendees:

Carla Stent (Chair) Martin Kearsley (Product Portfolio Director -
Banking, Payments and Transactional Products):
Item 2.2 (MK)

Tom Cooper (NED, UKGI) (TC) Simon Oldnall (Horizon and GLO IT Director): Item
3.4 (SO)

Zarin Patel (NED) (ZP) Simon Recaldin (Historical Matters Director): Item
4 (SR)

Zdravko Mladenov (Group Chief Digital and
Information Officer): Item 5 (ZM)

Dean Bessell (Interim CISO for Retail and Controls):

Item 5 (DB)
Regular Attendees: Tom Lee (Group Financial Controller): Items 8 and
9 (TL)
Tim Parker (Chairman, POL) (TP) Christine Kirby (Head of Financial Accounting and

Controls): Item 8 (CK)

Nick Read (Group Chief Executive Officer) (NR) I Russell Hancock (Supply Chain Director): Item 8
(RH)

Alisdair Cameron (Group Chief Finance Officer) Matthew Rooney (Senior Manager, PwC) (MR):
(AC) Item 8

Ben Foat (Group General Counsel) (BF)
Andrew Paynter (Audit Partner, PwC) (AP)

Haydn Horner (Senior Manager, PwC) (HH)

Sarah Allen (Senior Manager, PwC) (SA)

Carol Murray (Deloitte Partner) (CM)

Johann Appel (Head of Internal Audit) (JA)

Rebecca Barker (Deputy Head of Risk) (RB)

Anshu Mathur (Interim Group Compliance
Director) (AM)

Rachel Scarrabelotti (Company Secretary) (RS)

Marie Molloy (Senior Assistant Company
Secretary) (MM)

Apologies:

N/A

Action

1. Welcome and Conflicts of Interest

1.1 A quorum being present, the Chair opened the meeting.

1.2 The Directors declared that they had no new conflicts of interest in the
matters to be considered at the meeting in accordance with the
requirements of section 177 of the Companies Act 2006 and the
Company's Articles of Association.

2. Previous Meetings

STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL 1

POL-0113902
POL00114796

POL00114796
POST OFFICE LIMITED

2.1 The minutes of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee meetings held
on 21% June 2022 and 17 May 2022 were APPROVED and
AUTHORISED for signature by the Chair.

2.2 Martin Kearsley joined the meeting.
Progress against the completion of actions as shown on the action log was
NOTED, with key discussion points as follows:
ACTION ITEM 25 - BF was concerned that this item was not having the
pace of progress expected.
MK provided context regardin: ntity trading
below Equals Group PLC. POL had engaged wit in 2019 about
joining the : but that never progressed. Their
operating arm ‘cardonemoney’ is depositing cash via this route, which POL
should therefore be able to stop.
MK advised that he was seeking an urgent meeting with
from a regulatory perspective, it was unacceptable. ~
The Chair said there was no agreement with ‘cardonemoney’. The meeting
discussed unilaterally switching off service to ‘cardonemoney’s’ IIN to
minimise risk.
AC asked who would have the regulatory issue, POL o
advised both and that taking deposits when not licensed
attract a serious penalty. ACTION: Legal - Renata Prywerek/Sarah Gray Beraerek
(Ben Foat) to circulate a note to the ARC when the position and action I /sarah
regarding this matter was confirmed. Gray(BF)
Martin Kearsley left the meeting.

2.3 The draft minutes of the Risk and Compliance Committee held on 27" June
2022 were NOTED.

3. Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit Updates

3.1 Risk Report & Dashboard
RB introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. RB outlined how risks had been grouped in relation to the
funding allocation. There were five key areas that were flagged for further RB
action. ACTION: RB to bring this piece of work back for discussion by
December 2022 ARC.
In relation to GLO Remediations (HIJ & CIJ), the Risk team recommended
that the business reassess the impact of not addressing all HIJ findings
and prioritise what can/should be remediated on Horizon and what can be
moved to NBIT. The risk should be reviewed following the outcome. AC
outlined that considerable work had been undertaken in this respect.
NR advised management were looking at the outputs of Phase 2 and the
expected timescale of Phase 3 Inquiry completion. By the end of the
month management should be able to make a sensible decision with a
clear, joined up legal and operational view.

STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL 2

POL-0113902
@

POST OFFICE LIMITED

POL00114796
POL00114796

The Chair asked about the obligations through the Inquiry. BF advised that
the Inquiry would look at what had been achieved. The subsequent
milestones were not just about the 15 remediations but the ongoing
conformance to the 15.

AC agreed that the items had to be completed but what had to be done to
say that issues had been resolved was a grey area.

TC thought the Inquiries remit was slightly different and was about
whether the systems were fit for purpose. TC asked about the issue of
timing. BF advised it would be Phase 7 which was right at the end and
some governance elements would be in Phase 6. There would be interest
in what the current POL had done and whether this was robust and had
remediated the issues. A paper was going to GE on 3 August 2022. ZP
asked that whether the 15 HIJ tasks were being built into the NBIT build
ACTION AC was to circulate the paper to ARC by mid-August 2022
regarding funding and timing issues.

RB highlighted the Cyber Security Programme where there was insufficient
funding to remediate findings from the Internal Audit report, BEIS
Mandate and HIJ. The risk team recommended that the business clarifies
what can and can’t be done, so the risk is better understood and an
increase in funding can be considered. Appetite to tolerate the residual
risk should then be adjusted with continued monitoring.

AC advised that ZM was the risk owner and was working through a list of
what could and could not be done in relation to cyber security. The Chair
asked about a playbook regarding ransomware demands. ACTION: DM
to bring back to ARC the outcome of the ransomware dress rehearsal.

RB outlined that Supply Chain Operational Resilience was affected as
funding for network maintenance including spend in property, vehicle
replacements and security equipment has been significantly reduced. The
Chair was concerned about Health and Safety aspects concerning this. AC
confirmed that any items important from a Health and Safety aspect would
be completed unless there was a complete deterioration in POL’s financial
situation.

The impact on the Data Management Programme was outlined by RB.
Without improved Data Governance, we could introduce further risk to the
Inquiry due to; limitations on data, unreliable data and the loss of data.
POL is aware that this is an issue and management are working through
steps to reduce the impact of this risk. AC confirmed BR and ZM were
working through this.

BF also raised the issue of how POL manages its physical data. BF outlined
the loss of 28 prosecution files that came to light last Thursday between
Peters & Peters and Oasis. ACTION: The Data Protection Officer - Chris
Russell (Ben Foat) to update ARC on the 28 missing prosecution files
following investigation. BF had put immediate controls in place such as
requesting Peters & Peters to seal boxes before sending and reminding
Oasis they were not to accept unsealed boxes. A soft copy of the materials
in the boxes existed, so the data contained in the files had not been lost.

AC

DM

Chris
Russell
(BF)

STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

POL-0113902
@

POST OFFICE LIMITED

POL00114796
POL00114796

BF confirmed that they were trying to find the files, they had informed the
ICO and the data subjects were being notified.

The Chair spoke about the letters printed for the local authority and AM
confirmed there had been two data breaches in the last three months. AC
outlined the difficulties with less money to spend on the control
environment to stop issues happening.

The Chair was concerned about reputational damage and that breaches
were occurring already. AC said the data piece was a live conversation and
NR advised they were revisiting the £1.1m allocation as it did not feel like
this was enough. BF outlined the work he and ZM were undertaking on
data governance controls and management frameworks, which would only
take it so far.

TC was concerned about the possibility of prosecution files being found 3
days before the hearing, which had happened previously. AC spoke about
checking physical locations and storage partners to be in a situation where
management were confident. AC appreciated management had to do this
faster as this was a core reputational risk. BF outlined the documents in
Chesterfield and work there needed to be brought forward in terms of
people and resource to be completed before November. The Chair said
that it would be left to management to think this through. ACTION: Plan
to expedite work at Chesterfield to be shared with ARC.

The Chair asked about the issues with reporting out of Service Now. RB
advised that this was due to user issues and JA added user education was
being undertaken to get users up to speed.

The Committee NOTED the risk update.

Madeline
De
Matteis
(BF)

3.2

Stamp Stock - Control Issues and Fraud

JA introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read.

JA highlighted that a review by the Supply Chain Compliance team in
March 2022, highlighted a number of control weaknesses in stamp stock
processes. In May 2022 a fraud of c.£190k was discovered, which was
facilitated by transactional mis-use, within Horizon, performed by a staff
member of WH Smith. They were investigating and understanding root
causes. 23 high risk branches were being analysed. AC updated that the
stamps from the WH Smith fraud had been recovered from the staff
member's garage.

AC explained that two thirds of the stock journey to branch had been
completed, the other third had not been completed yet and there was not
a visible supply chain. TC recalled that 2 or 3 year years ago stock controls
in Swindon had shown signs of improvement. AC advised of the issues
with not joining up with stock management, once the branch received
stamps the position was reflected in Horizon. It would crystallise this
autumn with RMG through the introduction of barcoded stamps. TC asked
about plans to automate the stamps journey on Horizon, AC said there

STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

POL-0113902
@

POST OFFICE LIMITED

POL00114796
POL00114796

were no plans. They were looking at Horizon and NBIT regarding contract
arrangements with RMG.

The Committee NOTED the Stamp Stock - Control Issues and Fraud
Report.

3.3

Compliance Update and Stock Review Report

AM introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read.

AM outlined that on 27 June 2022 POL were informed that printing errors
were madeon 3450 energy rebate (Pay-out) letters sent on behalf of
twoborough councils (Tamworth and Burnley) incorrectly disclosing
names, andin 2960 of these, also addresses.

Tamworth council hasreported a Personal Data Breachto the
ICO. Burnley Council has decided not to report to the ICO. The printer
provider, Zunoma, have identified several fixes, including a new ‘scheme’
for double sided personalised letters, an improved summary sheet to add
controls by the printer operative and additional checks in the process.

AM confirmed that two further batches are planned and Tamworth have
requested that a sample is sent to them for approval before the next batch
of letters are sent out.

ACTION AM is assessing the risk associated with use of private emails,
social media and other messaging services and a detailed updated will be
presented at the September ARC. AM outlined the importance of POL
having ready access to the data and where it sits.

ACTION AM outlined issues with HMRC Fit and Proper reporting and gaps
identified. An update would be provided to ARC in September. AC praised
AM‘s clarity and focus which BF echoed.

ZP spoke about POL being under significant stress for the next 12-18
months and asked about the understanding of how to engage colleagues
‘hearts and minds’ rather than more process and control. ZP was looking
at it from the perspective of unlocking mindset and optimism, rather than
introducing further controls.

AC said they were looking to lighten the load where possible and were
looking at the CAF process, for example, to make things easier. BF spoke
about procurement and templates/training to reduce legal and compliance
involvement where it was not needed. ACTION: information regarding
these items to be shared with ARC and RCC.

The Chair raised the issue of financial/branch controls reviews being lower
than she expected at 33%. AC subsequently advised that bank
reconciliations are at 85%.

AM

AM

Sarah
Gray/

STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

POL-0113902
@

POST OFFICE LIMITED

POL00114796
POL00114796

AM outlined his work creating the control framework and defining what
was meant by controls. It would take 3-6 months for AM to produce a
joined up plan to identify risk and controls at an entity level.

BF raised a number of issues regarding Payzone. These were: £6m of
invoices Payzone owed POL being withheld, the loan facility contained debt
of £11m owed to POL and decisions were being taken by Payzone
impacting POL without seeking prior consent from POL. BF was concerned
about non-compliance with Public Contracts Regulations. An investigation
was underway to understand the facts which involved interviews and
document reviews. The whistle blowing policy would be followed.

AC advised that the financial teams had been through the build-up of inter-
company debt and they were not worried about fraud. AC confirmed that
Payzone, in its current business model, was not financially viable. There
was a strategic question regarding investment in Payzone or building bill
payments in NBIT.

BF raised the issue of a potential conflict of interest with certain people at
POL acting as Directors of Payzone. ZP discussed the right leadership and
accountability. NR confirmed that a paper regarding Payzone would go to
GE and POL Board.

The Committee NOTED the Compliance Update and Stock Review Report.

3.4

Internal Audit (IA) Update
Simon Oldnall joined the meeting.

JA introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read.

JA advised that the top three themes were the same as 2020/2021,
although the order has changed. Change Delivery is now the top theme.
The risk team do not interpret this to indicate a deterioration in
programme governance and controls, rather the data indicates that there
was a higher number of findings as a result of the increased oversight
provided by IA, which is appropriate given the challenges of a strategic
change portfolio that encompasses critical and complex programmes
across the business.

JA confirmed that the average number of findings across all reviews
remains steady at six. JA flagged that the ability of POL to retain/attract
the right skills/people was a finding across the audits. The Audit report
turnaround was good, despite the increased audit activity. Delivery of the
2022/2023 programme has commenced and is on track. Three POL audits
were completed in the current reporting cycle.

e Third Party Data Validation - Bank of Ireland. This was rated
satisfactory.

« SPM Programme Set-up and Governance Follow-up audit. This was
rated Needs Improvement, reflecting that despite the good
progress made, more work is required to fully establish governance

STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

POL-0113902
@

POST OFFICE LIMITED

POL00114796
POL00114796

and controls that are appropriate for a programme of this size and
complexity.

e HIJ Improvement Programme Phase 2 audit. This was rated as
Needs’ Significant Improvement driven by the potential
consequences of the slower than planned delivery, resulting in a
significant risk to PO of not delivering sufficient remediation activity
in time for the Inquiry, or being unable to demonstrate a clear route
to remediation.

SO reflected on the HIJ Improvement Programme Phase 2 audit with
significant improvements in the overall tracking and management of
complex and intertwined deliverables focussed on remediating the
judgement findings. SO advised that the programme continues to work
with NRF to get their views on the overall remediation status and their
view on potential detriment to Postmasters to inform decisions around
scope and funding for further remediation work.

The Chair spoke about the impacts of the programme rather than just
ticking a box to say that something has been done. NR said there was a
bigger point about whether the system was fit for purpose and whether
the previous issues could occur again.

TC asked about the most important outstanding issue. SO advised they
were creating a complete picture of who owns what, when and why. TC
enquired why this was not done 2/3 years ago. SO said it was a difficult
process due to the technology and the level of security.

The Chair said it was necessary to factor possible delays to NBIT into the
equation. AC outlined that NBIT would be delivered between February and
November 2024.

Simon Oldnall left the meeting.

ZP observed that she would like to be more confident in the governance
of NBIT which was amber on the report. JA advised that the broad findings
of the lessons learned from HIJ would be carried to NBIT. They were
formalising lesson learned challenges around decision making.

The Chair spoke about the different levels of assurance on the programme
and about JA and ZM views of the first, second and third lines. JA
confirmed that the second line was still being developed, AM and ZM were
working on this.

JA raised observations regarding the Belfast Exit (BEX) Programme. The
Chair confirmed there was a paper on this going to Board that afternoon.

The Committee NOTED the Internal Audit Update.

HMU Risks

Simon Recaldin joined the meeting.

SR outlined that this paper was presented to RCC on 27" June and has
been updated to include HM Business Risks as an appendix. The paper
presented a list of more items to complete. A full review of all risks is

STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

POL-0113902
@

POST OFFICE LIMITED

POL00114796
POL00114796

being undertaken in HMU as part of the Risk and Three Lines of Defence
Review process, to ensure the risks being reported are current, adequate
and correctly articulated.

SR thanked AM for assisting with this. SR welcomed any ideas, feedback
or challenge. SR was concerned about clarity on funding and legal fees
and GLO conformance, considering pace v quality v costs aspects. Also
risks around HSF.

The Chair thanked SR and the team for their work. The Chair asked if from
an operational point of view SR had the right people and processes. SR
advised three new employees had been engaged. They had just
commenced so he was not able to advise regarding their leadership and
skill set. He had a person looking at the project management of the data
in boxes at Oasis and a commercially skilled person looking at the HSF
costs.

ZP welcomed the paper and thought that the Historical Remediation
Committee (HRC) could be too transactional at times. She considered that
HRC could spend more time on the big risks. SR said that HRC had made
a lot of key decisions.

TC spoke about the overturned convictions end to end and he was keen
to see where this was heading. SR confirmed they would apply end to end
to the model to get the process. AC praised SR’s clarity.

The Chair referenced Appendix 3 of the report, business risks, and
considered them more within our control and could be taken up through
HRC. ACTION SR agreed to look at delegations of authority in this respect
and any others that are within POL control.

The Chair asked TC and ZP if they were happy with where they had got
to. TC said they had a long way to go. There were parts they can and parts
they can’t control. With the parts they can control they are as effective as
they can be but not fast enough, he was aware that SR had been fighting
fires. BF added that he was meeting the Global CEO of HSF on Thursday.

The Committee NOTED the Historical Matters Unit Risk Report.
Simon Recaldin left the meeting.

SR

IT Controls Deep Dive

Zdravko Mladenov and Dean Bessel! entered the meeting.

The Chair enquired about the progress since the last paper in November
2021. DM advised that he and AM had reached a shared view of where
they are regarding controls. There was much to do but it was in a better
place than expected. There were lots of controls in place but they were
not organised in an end to end way, despite the individual components
being there.

STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

POL-0113902
POL00114796

POL00114796
POST OFFICE LIMITED

DB advised that work should be finalised by the end of December 2022
with 12 months to enhance and optimise, giving an implementation date
of December 2023.
The Chair asked about assurance in the interim. DB advised that
penetration tests had been done as part of the HIJ programme. They had
also tested in the model office environment.
DM spoke about the BEX Programme. There had been component testing
but there had not been a test of whether the entire fallback system was
fit for purpose in three years. There had been discussion about doing this
again but this depended on how long BEX took.
AC outlined that the full failover would take two weekends and there was
uncertainty regarding if it would switch back on again. ACTION: ZM to I zm
provide more information to ARC in September regarding this.
ZP acknowledged the good progress on IT controls and requested a
dashboard so there could be a focus on the gaps and the top 10 technology
risks in the organisation. The Chair added it should include IT being built,
running the old and the risk in that. ACTION: ZM to include this as part I zm
of regular dashboard reporting with the underlying narrative.
JA advised that an interim audit would be taken in Q3 on the IT Controls
Framework. AC was keen to keep the conversation moving. ACTION: AM I am
to review the cycle of work when it comes back.
The Committee NOTED the IT Controls Deep Dive.
Zdravko Mladenov and Dean Bessell left the meeting.
Anti-Bribery & Corruption Report & Policy

6.1 The paper had been circulated previously and was taken as read.
The Committee RESOLVED to APPROVE the Anti-Bribery & Corruption
Annual Report and Policy Review.

7. Modern Slavery Statement

7.1 The paper had been circulated previously and was taken as read.
The Committee RESOLVED to RECOMMEND that the Modern Slavery
Statement be APPROVED by the Board.
Annual Report & Accounts FY 2021/22

8.1 Andrew Paynter, Tom Lee and Christine Kirby joined the meeting.
ARA COVER NOTE AND FINAL ARA
The Chair thanked the PwC and POL teams as the accounts were in
substantially good shape. AC echoed that and spoke about the decision
regarding a September or December publication of the accounts.
Sensitivities regarding the timing of the Inquiry, the pay dispute and the

STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL 9

POL-0113902
POL00114796

POL00114796
POST OFFICE LIMITED
new Chairman commencing were outlined. The Chair advised this would
be discussed at the Board meeting.
TL outlined the key questions that ARC needed to address.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL 10

POL-0113902
@

POST OFFICE LIMITED

POL00114796
POL00114796

Matthew Rooney joined the meeting.

In relation to Going Concern, ARC agreed that current disclosure is
reasonable and in line with expectations. The signing of the updated
Working Capital Facility agreement on 9 July 2022 was helpful. ARC
considered that an updated letter of comfort was required from BEIS and
this was deemed a critical part of signing.

ARC debated which items to include in the letter of comfort and
determined the following should be sought:

e General assurances, in line with last year

e Assurances over Remediation, in line with last year

« NSP - a statement that BEIS acknowledge that if NSP is not
forthcoming in future years, POL will not be held to delivering the
linked Network requirements.

e HSS - seek assurances that the late applicants will be funded, via
the current envelope or a new business case

* OHC and HSS tax - seek assurances that should POL be liable to
liable to Corporation Tax then BEIS will fund.

TL outlined the Payzone debtor, based on work performed there is not a
heightened fraud risk. However, an end to end controls review will be done
by IA in due course. The ARC debated the level of impairment and
provisioning against the investment (£5m) and debtor (18m). It was
agreed that writing off the investment was sensible. The ARC determined
that the £5m provision against the £18m debt needs revisiting to ascertain
if the £13m is recoverable.

The Chair confirmed that there would be a conversation regarding Payzone
at the Board meeting later that day. Further work would be undertaken to
take into account the latest cashflow forecasts from Payzone and impact
of ongoing discussions around Payzone to POL recharges. An updated
position on provisioning was agreed to be brought back to the sub-
committee.

In relation to the Payzone issue with British Gas (BG) failed transactions
the ARC agreed that the risk is remote as customers owe BG the funds,
not Payzone, thus no provision or contingent liability disclosure is
required.

The position in relation to IR35 remains unchanged from prior years and
no investigation is underway by HMRC. However, the disclosures should
make reference to tax reviews ongoing. PWC discussed their internal
specialists view, with no concerns on the approach to the ARA noted, albeit
noting the ongoing tax risk given HMRC’s questioning.

ACTION AC confirmed management were obtaining expert third party
advice in relation to IR35 and that a copy of this advice would be
circulated.

SA outlined the Impairment review. The ARC noted the importance of
including NSP in the review, given the current draft strategic plan

TL

STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

11

POL-0113902
@

POST OFFICE LIMITED

POL00114796
POL00114796

numbers. The ARC noted the ARA disclosures, the assumptions around
this and the impairment risk (£250m) if removed from the assumptions.

The next steps were summarised by the Chair:

Approval of the ARA signing would be delegated to a sub-committee of the
Board consisting of the Chair, NR, AC and TC.

The sub-committee will look to approve, subject to the following being
agreed:

e Letter of Comfort (“LOC”) draft wording, and ultimately the final
wording (subject to BEIS agreement)

e OHC provision being reassessed if ENE is finalised prior to signing

e Tax disclosure to be made around
a) uncertainty around tax treatment of OHC / HSS funding,
b) IR35 risk. This may be a general statement as opposed to
specifics.

e Provision level against the Payzone debtor (£18m) to be confirmed
(currently £5m, may require more)

e HSF tax advice on OHC and HSS funding to be circulated.

e Wording around the change in accounting policy for HSS funding
to be confirmed with PwC.

ACTION: Tom Lee agreed to progress these matters.

Subject to the completion of these steps, the Committee RESOLVED to
RECOMMEND to the Board that the ARA be signed.

The aim was to sign the ARA asap, potentially late July 2022. The
publishing date is subject to a separate discussion and will be September
to December 2022. The ARC also discussed progressing the plan to lay
before parliament.

Bonus payment options (to pay in August 2022) are to be considered by
Remco. If the ARA signed is signed all payments made could be made.

If the ARA is not signed there were the options to make payments based
on draft position to all but the CEO and CFO or delay all payments.

AC thanked the Chair for all her helpful comments regarding the accounts.

PWC 2021/22 AUDIT STATUS UPDATE

In relation to assumptions in pension scheme liabilities, SA advised that
the methodologies used to derive the assumptions are consistent with the
prior year or have been updated to reflect more recently available market
information.

SA highlighted that in relation to classification of trading profits,
procedures have been performed to ensure the correct classification of
investment and exceptional items as part of the audit. Exceptional items
relate to historical matters, Inquiry costs and other legal costs, primarily

TL

STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

12

POL-0113902
@

POST OFFICE LIMITED

POL00114796
POL00114796

relating to the Inquiry. SA agreed with management's assessment that
these items met the definition of exceptional items.

Based on the procedures performed, some IT control deficiencies where
management could further strengthen the IT control environment were
highlighted by SA.

HH advised PwC had completed procedures in respect of trading profit
journals testing and found no evidence of material fraud through
management override of controls. No evidence of material fraud in
revenue recognition has been identified.

In relation to agent’s remuneration all adjustments have been agreed, on
a sample basis, to corroborating evidence where material. HH outlined
they have attended cash counts throughout the year and attended year
end cash centre counts. Bank confirmations have been obtained for all
bank accounts but are awaiting revised confirmation from NatWest and
the Lloyds Bank confirmation.

MR provided the non-audit services update. Regarding the Bank of
England - Note Circulation Scheme they issued a draft report to
management in May 2022 and this was issued in final form shortly
thereafter. Their opinion was modified, such that three control objectives
were qualified. The remaining four of the seven control objectives were
suitably designed and operating effectively. It was a comparable picture
from last year. MR flagged limitations with the Sharepoint system, which
are being reviewed.

MR advised of the Branch network audit, PwC's opinion for the FY2021
audit was unmodified. The audit was signed in early February 2022.

In relation to the Banking Framework Audit, at present PwC are still in the
contracting stage for this work, given that POL management is still seeking
to establish which banks will opt in to receiving the report.

The Committee NOTED the PwC FY 2021/2022 Audit Status Update.
ACCOUNTABLE PERSON PAPER

The Chair checked with NR, as the accountable person, that he was aware
of the responsibilities outlined in this paper. NR confirmed that he was.

The Committee NOTED the Accountable Person Paper.

Andrew Paynter, Sarah Allen, Haydn Horner and Russell Hancock left the
meeting.

External Audit services (Verbal Update)

AC outlined that an External Audit tender had been considered however
there was not a great deal of interest. AC proposed to postpone the
External Audit tender. AP retires in a few years and AC was conscious of
having three Audit Partners in three years. There may also be a better
competitive response in the future. AC had spoken to AP who had advised

STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

13

POL-0113902
POL00114796

POL00114796
POST OFFICE LIMITED
PwC’s fee would decrease as hours have been taken out. ZP agreed it was
sensible position.
The Committee RESOLVED to RECOMMEND to the Board that PwC be
retained as POL External Auditors for the next financial year.
10. AOB
10.1 There being no further business, the meeting was closed at 12.26.
11. Items for Noting
11.1 The following papers were circulated to the Committee prior to the
meeting, but were not discussed at its meeting and NOTED by the
Committee:
- Procurement Governance & Compliance
- Post Office Insurance ARC Update
- Law & Trends
- Committee Forward Plan
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL 14

POL-0113902
POL00114796
POL00114796

Voting Results for ARC Minutes from 12.07.2022 (approved on 26.09.2022)

The signature vote has been passed. 1 votes are required to pass the vote, of which 0 must be independent.

Vote Response

Count (%)

For 1 (100%)
Against 0 (0%)
Abstained 0 (0%)
Not Cast 0 (0%)
Voter Status
Name Vote Voted On
Stent, Carla For 18/10/2022 16:51

POL-0113902
