POL00114194
POL00114194

be

Belinda Crowe 2

— — — — —
From: Andy Holt

Sent: 20 October 2013 22:19

To: . Paula Vennells . ,

Ce: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Alwen Lyons; Rodric Williams; Belinda Crowe
Subject: RE: Weekly update

[esr he wousihow

Paula — here is your update for last week.

ke cess
Mediation Process Launch Cur wo odie ok to oro ae
* 53 Applications in total, breakdown below I, oc a Ro lou or > volt

© 6 new applications this week -
Wok wmnl\ peste eve =

44 - Acceptance letters and funding agreements sent to SPMR’s.

1- awaiting internal checks Wauwley J
3 - waiting for additional information to be supplied by SPMR locale .
4-PO will continue to investigate SPMR’s cases internally as they have not exhausted internal
processes.
1- declined because they are still the legal process (being reviewed by the WG)

Policy for compensation: Positive sub group meeting held last week to provide steer for Andy P (Bond
Dickenson). Another session booked for the group to review/agree, we will then apply some initial
applications to this to test the policy. We will bring this back to Steering Board w/c 28th.

Independent Chair
* Following your call with Sir Anthony on Friday we will progress the comms and get and initial meeting for Sir
Anthony and the Working Group next week. In preparation for this we are reviewing the TOR for the Group
again, identifying topics we want to make sure he understands and areas want to resolve and get his buy in
to (e.g. role or Second Sight).

Improvement Work stream .

* Following the Improvement programme board last week the members have been writing behaviours and
outcomes that they as leaders should be looking for from their teams, these get reviewed on a callon
Tuesday. I am sure you will remember the “as is” experiences we went through in Swansea, next week we
agree who will lead in creating the “to-be” experiences as well as the teams that will input/shape these.

Legal and Adjudication of future case
* No update - but case reviews still continue with Cartwright King and expected to complete at the end of
October.

© Rod provided an update at the Steering Board from Brian Altman on his work to date. We will be preparing
a paper for Steering, ExCo and the Board about PO’s future role in relation to prosecutions.

Regards ls Wve Q ta totic aoarickbe
sa fou. svepalt in (G4 oa
nasalI- -

POL00114194
POL00114194

louatw Wood We Cove) pound
5 OfFSus!- wros ED)?
Uvek loud We LEDS Hor tod

?
: Ronee ashe Rev sclano$
laglale tho gots

\S) Wea

2 ¢ ‘ .
Chaise Ooch en Co legally on dose mu I% Nov.

(Su lichalig nb)

? ~
fuel ele

POL00114194
POL00114194

Belinda Crowe

Hee ae el

From: Andy Holt

Sent: 21 October 2013 21:13

To: Belinda Crowe; Chris Aujard; Martin Edwards

Ce: Rodric Williams; Angela Van-Den-Boge! ‘harles Colquhoun; Parsons, Andrew
Subject: RE: Sparrow - text for CEO's report

Martin —I have included responses to the questions you posed and included some speaker notes on SS .
Belinda/Chris — would you review and approve please (I will then get a final copy to Martin)
All—thanks for you additional words/responses to questions.

Regards FSeblich BG 4 schewe.
Andy WE WOO Schorr . Aacicatrores a
Pou

Project Sparrow Update

The Mediation Scheme has received 53 applications from subpostmasters since it was opened at the end of

August. 44 of the applications have been accepted on to the scheme and await full submissions from the
subpostmasters, the remainder require additional information, need to exhaust internal PO processes or are in legal
processes which exclude them from joining at this time. The application closure date is the 18'" November,
subpostmasters will then have a month to complete their full applications before we investigate the cases in

detail. The aim is to get some cases into Mediation before the end of 2013 with the majority happening between
January and March. We are in the final stages of appointing Sir Anthony Hooper, he will chair his first Working Group
meeting on Friday 25" October. We will make a positive press release around this time which will include buy in from
the JFSA. A written Settlement Policy for the Scheme is being produced. The Policy will explain (1) the process for
refining our understanding of the costs and outcomes of the Scheme and (2) the parameters for where/how PO may
be prepared to settle individual cases. This policy is being developed to ensure that a consistent approach is taken to
each case and to ensure that those attending each mediation on behalf of PO have a clearly defined mandate for
what may be offered by way of settlement. This Policy will be reviewed and approved by the Sparrow Steering Group
before submission to ExCo & the Board.

Brian Altman QC's first review has now been received. This first review looked into PO's compliance with its
prosecution duties in light of Second Sight's findings — in particular, it considered PO's legal duty to ensure that
Second Sights’ findings were fully disclosed to any person who is currently being or has previously been prosecuted
by PO. He concluded that PO is complying with its duties and that the approach adopted by the prosecution team
was "fundamentally sound". This report gives PO good grounds to resist any formal external review of its historic
prosecutions (i.e. by the Criminal Cases Review Commission). The Criminal Case reviews continue with our external
firm of solicitors so that PO complies with these disclosure obligations. They have completed several sifts and this
process has thus far identified 11 cases where disclosure is required. !t is now a matter for the defence in those
particular cases to determine what action if any they might take in light of this additional information.

Brian Altman QC’s final review is also progressing and it is expected to complete as planned by the end of
October. This review will address the question of how PO may wish to approach prosecutions in the future, this will
be shared with the Board at the end of November.

The Improvement Work stream has completed the ‘as is’ experience for subpostmasters. The team are now
progressing with the “to be” picture and identifying the gaps and issues as well as defining the activities that will be
needed to get us to our future model. Members of the programme are now tasked with articulating the vision,
behaviours and outcomes they as leaders should be looking for from their teams so that they address both the
cultural challenges as well as the improvement activities needed to achieve the outcomes for this work. Having
approved the terms of reference for the Branch User Forum we are now recruiting subpostmasters to participate on
the forum so that the initial meeting can convene in mid November.

Speaking notes
Role of SS - PO have made positive steps to reduce the scope of Second Sight but there are still challenges given
their influence with MP’s and subpostmasters from their initial work.

1

POL00114194
POLO00114194

s !

POL00114194
POL00114194

© SS'role has been reduced to investigating specific cases — under its original scope of work SS was entitled to
look broadly at any aspect of Horizon.

© Under the Mediation Scheme, Second Sight are no longer responsible for supporting the subpostmasters in
understanding and defining their problems & concerns — this area of their work was proving to be slow and
time consuming. .

© SSare no longer required to give a definitive view on the efficacy/reliability of Horizon — it only needs to
offer its best assessment of each Subpostmaster's case

© PO have a created a small dedicated team to streamline the investigation process.

Next steps

© Use the appointment of Sir Anthony to remove the need for SS to formally vote at Working Group meetings
- thereby moving them to an advisory role only.

© Migrate the investigation of cases from SS to the internal PO team.

Finances - the projected costs of £1.6M exclude compensation which will be estimated when the settlement policy is
finalised and full submissions received from subpostmasters. This will allow the analysis on the treatment of these
costs within the p&l.

From: Martin Edwards

Sent: 18 October 2013 16:26

To: Andy Holt

Cc: Belinda Crowe; Rodric Williams; Chris Aujard; Hugh Flemington; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Charles Colquhoun
Subject: Sparrow - text for CEO's report

Andy

Thanks very much for this. A few questions/requests for further information (which copy recipients may be better
placed to answer).

1. Would be good to include a line on the review of prosecutions policy —i.e. just updating the Board that work
on this is progressing and they will see a paper at the next ARC or Board. Following yesterday's discussion,
please can we confirm the arrangements?

2. I think we should have a few lines on compensation policy, as this is very much on the Board’s mind given
the link to costs and outcomes. Please can we have some sentences to explain what work has been done so
far, the initial conclusions and the next steps to develop the policy in more detail?

3. I think the Criminal Case review process needs more explanation, in particular an explanation of the
implications of the 11 cases where disclosure has been recommended. (Even if we don’t want to include too
much on this in the text itself, useful for Paula to have in her background notes). Can we also have an
explanation of the high level conclusions of the Brian Altman review, along the lines outlined by Rodric
yesterday?

4, Further to yesterday’s discussion, please could we also have some lines for background speaking notes on
the process/outlook for resolving SS’s involvement in the WG etc?

5. Would be good to put in a rough date (or at least month) for the first meeting of the Branch User Forum.
Late October? Early November? Or at least by end November?

6. At what point do we expect the first cases to go to mediation?

7. Finally, as mentioned to Charles, Paula/Chris will need a few background notes on projected costs and
accounting arrangements.

For the additional text which needs to go into the report itself it would be good to have this as soon as possible.
We've got more time for the background notes (would need these finalised by the end of next week).

Give me a shout if useful to discuss.

Thanks,
Martin

POL00114194
__POL00114194

POL00114194
POL00114194

From: Andy Holt

Sent: 16 October 2013 16:21

To: Martin Edwards

Subject: RE: Information for Paula's 1:1 with Chairman

Martin

Does this look like the right sort of level/content. I have tried to stick to the themes of the previous update so this is
relevant to the board. I have not mentioned next steps on compensation policy as I couldn’t find a reference to this
in the last paper but for you info I would expect another iteration next week before we can look at how this works
with a sample of current submissions. We will bring this back to the steering board for review in 2 weeks.

Project Sparrow Update

The Improvement Work stream has completed the ‘as is’ experience for subpostmasters. The team are now
progressing with the “to be” picture and identifying the gaps and issues as well as the activities that will be needed get
us to our future model. Members of the programme are now tasked with articulating the vision, behaviours and
outcomes they as leaders should be looking for from their teams so that they address both cultural challenges as well
as the improvement activities needed to achieve the outcomes required.

The Mediation Scheme has now received 46 applications from subpostmasters since it was opened at the end of
August. 37 of the application have been accepted on to the scheme and await full submissions from the
subpostmasters. The remainder require additional information, need to exhaust internal Post Office processes or are
in legal processes which exclude them from joining at this time. The application closure date is the 48" November,
we will then have all the cases we will need to manage in the initial scheme. We are in the final stages of appointing
Sir Anthony Hooper as the independent chair and expect to have him in place by the end of October.

The Criminal Case reviews continue with our external firm of solicitors. They have completed several sifts of past
cases and have recommended disclosure on 11. Brian Altman QC’s review is also progressing well and it is expected
to complete as planned by the end of October.

Having approved the terms of reference for the Branch User Forum we are now recruiting subpostmasters to
participate on the forum so that the initial meeting can convene.

Regards

Andy

POL00114194
POL00114194

