                                                                                             POL001 39732
                                                                                           POLOO139732




                            Regular Call re Horizon Issues

Meeting 31/0713

Attendees:

Team/Function                                                Attendees
Legal                                                        Rodric Williams
                                                             Martin Smith
                                                             Jarnail Singh
Financial Services Centre (FSC)                              Rod Ismay
Security                                                     Dave Posnett
                                                             Rob King
Communications                                               Sophie Bialaszewski

Network                                                      Gayle A Peacock

Information Technology & Change (IT&C)                       Steve Beddoe

Network Business Support Centre (NBSC)                       Kendra Dickinson


Name           Area               Issues/Observations/Comments

Dave           Security           Spoke about;
Posnett
                                     •   Dave Posnett attended branch re security (TORCH)
                                         visit. The OIC demonstrated that a customer's letter
                                         was on the scales, weighed 25g and should be £1.70
                                         for 1st class recorded delivery service. There was no
                                         icon or screen option for this service, the minimum
                                         service was £3.70 for a 2nd class recorded small
                                         parcel. OIC had contacted Helplines and was
                                         informed to reboot on each occasion. I took photos of
                                         the screen and calendar entries. Matter discussed
                                         with Simon Baker, but branch did not form part of 2nd
                                         Sight case referrals.Lepton situation concerning
                                         existing v system reversals discussed.



                                            Horizon Issue
                                         RECORDED DELIVER)


                                         Helen Rose completed a report re 'system reversals'
                                         on Horizon. These system reversals are normal and
                                         correct, but on Horizon and Credence logs these
                                         reversals show up as 'existing reversals', implying that
                                         the user has performed the reversal. On instruction
                                                                                    POL001 39732
                                                                                  POLOO139732




                         •   from John Scott, the report was emailed by Dave
                             Posnett to Rodric Williams for comment/advice (cc
                             Dave Pardoe, Helen Rose and Elaine Spencer).

                         •   Spoke with Suzanne Winter ... Martin Humphreys from
                             Government Affairs is asking for
                             information/background about the Thomas Brown
                             case. This case (and the name Thomas Brown) was
                             mentioned in Parliament by MP Kevan Jones when MP
                             Jo Swinson spoke about the 2nd Sight interim report. I
                             advised Suzanne to provide Martin with her offender
                             report as he is an internal requestor and this would
                             give him the background on the case.

                         •   TP call from Mike Stanway ... barrister from CPS
                             currently prosecuting in a PO related matter has seen
                             2nd Sight report and media coverage re Horizon.
                             Wants to speak to someone. I advised Mike that the
                             barrister should be directed to Jarnail Singh in the first
                             instance, or Martin Smith if need be, as the matter was
                             in the court process and discussions should be
                             maintained within the legal arena by lawyers. Also
                             spoke to Jarnail who subsequently received the call
                             from the barrister. Transpires the case concerned
                             theft from a pouch and wasn't anything to do with
                             Horizon.

Steve       IT&C      Supporting documents are being improved as are help
Beddoe                guidelines. Stakeholder meeting next week.

                      Documents are being referred to NFSP, to be reviewed by
                      less experienced SPMRs.

                      Feedback from SPMRs from this years conference .. . 'what
                      can we do to make things easier'? Liaising with Fujitsu
                      (reference data, quick fixes, budgets, etc) .... By August for
                      January 'Release 10. Workshops ongoing.

Gayle       Network   Highlighted Bureau buy back problems. Discussion with
Peacock               Rodric Williams offline, though appears non Horizon related in
                      so far as the 'buy' icon was pressed instead of the 'sell' icon.

Rod Ismay   FSC       Enquired about Crystal reporting (clarity of comms, etc).
                      Sophie Bialaszewski to liaise with Comms Team.

                      Mentioned 'Brand Forum' ; Paula driving, Gayle is putting
                      TOR together re support moving forward.

                      Meeting to be held with Martin McColls; topics to include
                      suspense account, to ask how they want to be involved and
                      have input.
                                                                                           POL001 39732
                                                                                         POLOO139732




                                FOI request received from FOI desk (to Andy Winn) re
                                Horizon issues.
Dave            Security        Brief discussion held about ATM gluing case as matter
Posnett                         mentioned by Rod Ismay. Dave briefly informed all on call
                                that there was a case concerning ATM shortages at London
                                offices where a particular engineer had visited.

Martin Smith    Legal           Indicated he needed to know if anyone had been prosecuted
                                for ATM cases where engineer had visited.



Action Points

   1. Gayle to obtain list of branches via Wincor where engineer has visited, to establish
      if branches have sustained losses and if the losses have been made good.

   2. Rod Ismay to ensure branches are not billed for debts relating to possible ATM
      cases of concern.

   3. Rod Ismay to establish how/when we know that a loss has occurred in an ATM.

   4. Sophie Bialaszewski to check with Comms team about Crystal reporting (whether
      POL use it or whether we have something similar).

   5. Dave Posnett to provide Steve Beddoe with details of recorded delivery anomaly
      and reversals anomaly.
