POL00116113
POL00116113

From: Susan Crichton[IMCEAEX-
_O=MMS_OU=EXCHANGE+20ADMINISTRATIVE+20GROUP+20+28FY DIBOHF23SPDLT+29
_CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=SUSAN+20CRICHTONC5FA6431-DC28-49AB-8FOF-

BE4237A4AD4F @C72A47.ingest.local]

Sent: Fri 26/07/2013 11:53:07 AM (UTC)
To: [

Ce:

Subject: Workshop - Update

Paula — re the Workshop yesterday; POL were represented by me, Alwen, Ruth (Comms), Angela and Simon acted
as a facilitator, Ron and lan were there as was Alan Bates and Andy Parsons from BP. Overall the workshop was
conducted in a very professional collegiate manner.

Simon asked the participants what they wanted to achieve

SS —a roadmap to completion (of the existing case review)

AB/JFSA — justice and a “hearing for his members”

POL—aclear way forward and agreement to different ways of working with SS and the JFSA

We spent some considerable time on the mediation process with Andy giving expert input as to what it was, how it
generally worked and how it would work in the context of this investigation. So he explained the concept of a
facilitated discussion, that the mediator would be independent and qualified and that would add objectivity and
challenge.

There was discussion as to why we should use mediation rather than arbitration or adjudication - it was agreed that
mediation was the correct way forward. Both AB and SS were in agreement to this.

We turned to the process map which we provided and worked through this; many practical issues were surfaced,
how cases get into the process, a barrier to entry to restrict the number of cases — raised by SS and supported to
some extent by JFSA, so we have developed a “registration process” where SPMRs have to deliver a form with high
level details of their case, AB was very keen that this should go to their MP and to him, but AB also understood that
this could delay the case if it gets stuck with the MP (eg Tessa Munt). It was agreed that all internal processes within
POL must be exhausted before a serving SPMR should be able to enter the process.

After the registration of the case the SPMR would then have to submit a minimum level of information (use the list
from the JFSA agreement with POL) , there was much debate about SPMR would get to this position and when/if they
would need to appoint an independent expert. The issue here “the elephant in the room” was who would pay for the
independent expert, the POL team suggested that the SPMR should make a contribution which was met with an
instant reaction from JFSA — so we agreed we would take it away and discuss internally. We have agreed that a
proposal as to what we fund will come to the next steering board (next week).

Once the SPMR document is delivered to SS they will complete a case review — which will be sent to the SPMR for
comments and then to POL. At that stage it was felt to be important that a pre-mediation review would be completed
with SS and Angela (and AB) confident that some cases can be resolved at the point.

The mediation will take place — we will consider whether to run the processes on a regional basis, to keep costs down.
Some timescales were discussed but it was agreed that the parties would take these away for further consideration.

It was also agreed that this team — ie POL, SS and JFSA were the working group and would meet fortnightly to make
sure this was on track, it could be used as a forum if there was an issue as to whether cases were to be included in the
process and all were to think about who could be an independent chair. It was agreed that adding an extra forum
would be cumbersome and not add to the process.

There was a discussion at the close of the meeting of key messages which were agreed and Ruth is going to draft
these so that JA can be updated, and AB was going to use these to talk to his members on Sat.

At the end it was agreed to meet again in two weeks.
POL00116113
POL00116113

Things to note
AB was having a meeting with his members on Saturday — he was going to outline the process to them

Angela started a dialogue with AB to try and get exisiting SPMRs details so she could prevent further cases going into
the hopper

BD are drafting a “mediation pack” to include a registration form

Alwen approached AB and said we would pay his travel expenses

After the meeting Alwen and I met with SS and had a conversation re their costs going forward and said that they
need to be aware that there was considerable internal concern about the time and money taken so far. We are
meeting on Tues to discuss further, I will involve Chris.

AB mentioned on a number of occasions that this should be funded out of central gov funds.

Susan
