Message

POL00099029
POL00099029

From:

on behalf of
Sent:

To:

cc:
Subject:

; Mark R Davies § Lesley J

Alwen Lyons

Fwd: Proposed way forward

FYI and for any thoughts pls.

Paula

Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: Paula Vennells <”
Date: 6 July 2013 10:
To: Alan Bates ¢

Subject: Re: Proposed way forward

Alan, thank you for the note. Yes, I thought the meeting with James was positive too. My main concern
is still how we manage the publicity, to avoid - as you said - it ‘going ballistic’.

We had a useful conversation re a statement from James with quotes from you and me, or possible joint
statement. And agreed we would pick up again on Monday.

Ours is now bring re-worked in the light of that and as we liaise with SS over the weekend on some
changes to the report where it is factually inaccurate. I am hopeful these will be addressed.

Once I have a final draft, I would be happy to send across to you.

It would be good to meet on Monday. And as I haven't met Kay, then I would be happy to extend the
meeting to include her and I would bring Alwen Lyons, who is our Company Secretary - Alwen has been
the key lead on the liaison with James' office.

In the meantime, I hope you enjoy the glorious weather - at last!

Paula

Ps. You were on my list to call today but I imagine this email exchange is sufficient now? However, if you
would like to speak at any time, don't hesitate to text me.

Sent from my iPad

On 6 Jul 2013, at 09:51, "Alan Bates"

Hello Paula

I understand the meeting with James Arbuthnot went well on Friday and I believe he will
be discussing his views with me on Monday morning.

POL-0098612
POL00099029
POL00099029

1am sure you will agree that it is important that we have even an outline document of
the proposed way forward we have discussed, before the MPs’ meeting. As soon as it is
available, I would appreciate seeing your version of what is proposed, hopefully
amended to address the comment below.

Looking through my notes from our last conversation, there is an early item of concern,
that being the name of the panel which you referred to as the ‘user group’. Whilst I can
appreciate you want such a group to continue on into the future, at which time such a
name may be suitable. Initially, and whilst it is also looking at the issues surrounding the
report and the cases, possibly ‘task group’ or ‘working party’ might be more accurate, as
technically, the bulk of JFSA are ex users, and others will no doubt pick up on the

name. I could offer ‘review board’, but I could see that might not be acceptable.

Regarding Monday 8", do you still want to meet? If we do meet, and others are to
attend, I would like Kay Linnell, who has been working with us for the last year, to
accompany me. With travel arrangement to finalise, I would appreciate a response to
that point as soon as you are able to let me know.

Regards

Alan

POL-0098612
