POL00407608

POL00407608
From: Paula Vennells[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=PAULA. VENNELLS8C63D283-A51 1-46C3-A93E-
DC6F2AE7A78D]
Sent: Tue 03/09/2013 9:12:12 PM (UTC)
To: Susan Crichton Hi

Ce: Theresa llesf Martin Edwards; “GRO H
Subject: Re: Alice - James Arbuthnot meeting
Thx.

Yes Alice knows Catherine Bell - she thought she would be good. I didn't know her background.
P

Sent from my iPhone

On 3 Sep 2013, at 22:04, "Susan Crichton" + ___... GRO P wrote:

Catherine Bell and Stephen Bligh were both suggested by BIS, as far as I can remember Catherine
is/was a civil servant and I thought you said that Alice mentioned that she knew her; Stephen Bligh is
an accountant — KPMG partner and had done work on Eurotunnel. I have asked BIS for more
information, neither have been approached.

I have sent the update separately.

Susan

From: Paula Vennells

Sent: 03 September 2013 20:51

To: Susan Crichton

Cc: Theresa Iles; Martin Edwards

Subject: Re: Alice - James Arbuthnot meeting

Thanks Susan. As we don't have cvs for Bell and Bligh could you say who they are/why suggested?

Re the update - could you add a para re costs and timing on SS? I did ask for the last week update,
updated - not sure why I have just been sent an extract? My ambition is to reassure Alice that we are
on the detail.

A good meeting this pm. Thank you.

Paula

Sent from my iPhone
On 3 Sep 2013, at 18:32, "Susan Crichton" < _. GRO. > wrote:

Paula
Further to our conversation this afternoon.

There are two issues where we need to obtain JA’s view on our approach.
Firstly, JA committed to providing an update for MPs in the autumn but we have not
ascertained what he has in mind, although I think that there was a brief conversation
which suggested that no written report would be required but that a meeting would be
held with JA; MPs; SS; JFSA and the Post Office.

Our strong preference would be to use that meeting to discuss the mediation scheme and
to provide an update eg no of cases registered, where they are in the process etc. The
mediation scheme will not close now until 18" November so we won't have final numbers
but we can certainly give an update on progress. It is also our current intention/
aspiration to have resolved some of the cases of the most vociferous MPs.

An understanding of his thoughts would be useful at this stage, I had raised this with
Janet and she was proposing to talk to him last week and update me, I have not had an
update but that could be because of the political situation rather than anything else. I will
drop her an email asking for an update before the meeting.

Secondly we are going ahead on the basis that he doesn’t want to be involved in the
process either as a conduit for MP’s cases (where they are submitted to him/Janet they
are being sent the mediation packs) or as part of the Independent Working Group. We
need to acknowledge that he recommended Sir Stephen Sedgley as a candidate for the
independent chair.

Obviously general feedback would be useful as to how he thinks that this is going.

Paula as requested I have included a front page on the brief for the Independent Chair
anda ref to some CVs to follow.

Extract from update on 30" August

Mediation Process Launch — 27" August
e Appointed CEDR (Centre of Effective Dispute Resolution) as Mediators
e Panel of independent advisors nearly finalised.
© Panel will include over approx. 20 professionals made up of Accountants
and Legal firms
o Weare currently negotiating with a final couple of legal firms to restrict
their costs and this will decided - this will decide whether they make the
panel or not.

e Weare running a briefing/training day for the panel of independent advisors and
mediators 5" Sept in Birmingham. This will help make sure they are well informed
before they are engaged for SPMR cases. I will chair the day, the JFSA are going to
introduce the programme, Andy Parsons will cover the mediation process, and
introduction to the Post Office and the horizon system will be presented by
Angela and SS are preparing a case study.

e I have agreed with SS to cap their costs over the coming months.

Working Party

Independent Chair

We currently have 5 potential candidates for the independent chair:
Sir Antony Hooper

Sir Alan Ward

Sir Stephen Sedley

Catherine Bell

Stephen Bligh

I will send the JD and briefing pack separately

Legal and Adjudication of future case

POL00407608
POL00407608
e¢ Meeting was held with our external law firm who have been completing the
criminal case review

¢ The issues that we want Brian Altman QC to advise on were agreed, final sign off
of review process; options re appointment of independent expert witness (paper
to follow); advice on prosecutions going forward.

e — Following this discussion TOR for his review to be finalised.

Shout if you need anything else

Susan

Susan Crichton I General Counsel

<image003.jpg>
bd et, London, EC1V 9HQ

<Sparrow Briefing] .doc>
<Anthony Hooper CV 2013.doc>
<Sir Alan Hylton Ward and Sir Stephen Sedley CV 2013.doc>

POL00407608
POL00407608
