POL00445491
POL00445491

IT Directorate
IMPACT Programme Board — No. 18 ©

Minutes

Minutes of IMPACT Programme Board - 10" May 2005

Attendees

Name Initial I Role Comment

s s

Peter Corbett I PC Finance Director

Sue Harding SH Programme Manager

Debbie Shirley I DS PSO

Dave Smith Dxs Delivery Director, POL

Kier Wingrove I SC Project Team For Simon

Carter
George Hooper I GH Sales
Vicky Noble VN Head of Client Accounting &
Cash Mgt

Ric Francis RF Operations Director

Ruth Holleran I RH Operations

Lynn Hobbs LH General Manager Service Apologies
Simon Carter I SC Head of Marketing Apologies
1 Minutes from Previous Meeting

The minutes from the previous meeting were agreed.
2 Actions from Previous Meeting/Current meeting
No. I Owne Action Status/Progress I Date req.
r
Actions from 07/09/04
10.03 SG_ I To plan for ¢ Now that ‘back I 07/06/05

communication of

end launch has

successful release of taken place

R11 of IMPACT and communication

realisation of benefits being drafted

(Good news e Awaiting

communication). benefits
realization —
C/fwd

Ref: \PB Mins 100505.doc

Page 1 of4

POL00445491
POL00445491

IT Directorate
IMPACT Programme Board — No. 18

Minutes
Actions from 09/11/04
011.07 I SH _ I Consider adding new Audits 07/06/05
milestones into the undertaken but
plan around on old plan.
Implementation and Agreed to come
Group Audit back in 3-4
Assurance weeks to audit
the new agreed
plan — Closed
Actions from 08/02/05
014.03 I SH_ I To ensure all 08/03/05 Work I 07/06/05
scenarios for in progress —
branches are worked C/Fward
up and any risks are 05/04/03 — C/F
identified and
managed for non
conformance
014.04 I SH _ I Draw up alist of Sue to notify 07/06/05
CSF’s to ensure we the board of
get to where we want when we expect
to be including any to get this, any
indicators of what issues arising
areas are likely to be and if an interim
sensitive board is
required — c/fwd
Actions from 08/03/05
15.02 I DXS I Dave to brief Met with 07/06/05
Graham Halliday on Graham and
A&L Issue with a agreed F2F
view to engaging meeting reqd
A+L experts (need 2 rehearsals
names of experts) undertaken and
Dave/Graham to going well,
map out timetable of agreed
what needs to approach with
happen. A&L — meetings
to discuss set
up — Closed

Ref: \PB Mins 100505.doc

Page 20f4

POL00445491
POL00445491

IT Directorate
IMPACT Programme Board — No. 18

Minutes

Actions from POLFS re-planning session 21 March 2005

16.02 SH

Identify
milestones/drop
dead decision points
between now and
end of Programme

Part of agenda
on 10/05 -
closed

05/04/05
10/05/05

Actions from 5" March 05

17.01 I DXM

Dave to speak to
Graham Halliday re.
Release
Authorisation Board
(does Graham’s area
need to be
involved?).

Graham does
wish a
representative
to be at the
RAB’s - Closed

07/06/05

Actions from 10 May 05

18.01 RH

To provide an early
status report for
stuck rems

New action

07/06/05

18.02 I DXS

To investigate the 4
outstanding S60

CR’s and try to push
these through ASAP

New action

07/06/05

18.03 SH

To report to the
Board on progress
with the DMB’s
relating to time
cutting in the
branches

New action

07/06/05

18.04 SH

To draft the comms
for re-plan and send
to Peter for checking

New action

07/06/05

18.05 SH

To obtain copies of
the F2F video for the
board members

New action

07/06/05

Ref: \PB Mins 100505.doc

Page 3 0f4

POL00445491
POL00445491

IT Directorate
IMPACT Programme Board — No. 18 ©
Minutes

Points to note

Please see attached slides presented at the Board meeting

i)

"IMPACT - Prog
Boardmay05.ppt"

e Bureau is not going onto SAPADS before we go live and this is
currently being impact assessed

e Vicky and Peter to discuss off line how we track where we are and
where we want to be with the S60 reconcilation

Next IMPACT Programme Board Meetings:

7 June — 11.30-12.30, G7b, 80 Old Street

Ref: \PB Mins 100505.doc Page 4 of 4

