POL00097030
POL00097030

Message

From: Paula Vennells*

on behalf of â€” Paula Vennells

Sent: 09/10/2012

To: Theresa Iles; i
Subject: Fwd: Read out of James Arbuthnot /JFSA meeting

Ppo Alice 121

Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: Martin Edwards] <toos.200-20n02
Date: 4 October 2012 23

meeting
Simon, Alwen (and Sue to note on the prosecutions point in particular)

A short read-out of our meeting with James Arbuthnot (JA) and Alan Bates (AB) of the JFSA
earlier today. The action points summarised at the end. I took detailed notes which I'm happy to
debrief you on verbally, but the key points are captured below. (Paula - please chip in if I've
missed anything important).

Overall a reasonably cordial meeting. JA took a back seat, stating that while he was hosting the
meeting he saw his role as merely to facilitate a two way dialogue between JFSA and PO. (He
also ended by saying that he didn't plan to mediate in the future - the follow-up discussions
should be managed directly.)

The primary focus of the discussion was on how to encourage sub-postmasters to submit current
cases of alleged Horizon errors to the 2nd Sight investigation. AB said he wasn't looking for
blanket immunity from prosecution and debt recovery actions (which he acknowledged would be
subject to exploitation) but rather for PO to provide sub-postmasters with firm reassurances that
they would not be victimised or disadvantaged for raising cases. Paula said she could absolutely
guarantee there would be no negative come back and that all cases would be handled
appropriately.

There was therefore broad agreement on the principles, but no commitments given on precisely
how they would be communicated and implemented. AB handed over a draft of a four page
"immunity agreement principle" (which I'll forward in a separate email), which he wanted us to
advertise in Subspace or by other means. We didn't discuss the drafting, but Paula said we would
look at it and also consider the arrangements for communicating our reassurances and for ring-
fencing the use of personal records submitted to PO as part of the 2nd Sight investigation.

Paula also said that we would conduct another trawl of our recent call centre records to see if
there were any unresolved issues with Horizon which could potentially be submitted to the
investigation.

POL-0096613
POL00097030
POL00097030

Over the remainder of the meeting AB raised unnamed cases as examples of alleged
inadequacies in training, support and audit which could lead to accounting errors. Paula said that
while such wider issues were beyond the scope of the 2nd Sight investigation, and weren't in her
view representative of the whole business, we would readily investigate any specific complaints.
She also invited AB to come to 1480S to provide his feedback and experiences directly to the
network support teams (which he did not accept explicitly).

AB also raised concerns about PO's approach to prosecutions, implying that they could be
initiated with lower standards of evidence that the CPS would require, and could sometimes push
sub-postmasters into vulnerable positions. Paula said it was absolutely essential that the judicial
process was flawless, and therefore we would consider this point in detail.

Summary of action points (let me know if these should be allocated to other people):

1) Simon (in consultation with lawyers and others) to consider AB's proposed wording on the
commitment to provide "immunity" from reprisals, which will almost certainly need to be
fundamentally redrafted (while retaining the spirit as far as possible). In parallel we should
consider how this language will be communicated (e.g. via a letter to the JFSA or through
Subspace), which will affect the form of words. We should obviously get back to AB with our
proposals ASAP.

2) Simon - please can you liaise with the right people to conduct the trawl of call centre records
which we committed to do?

3) Sue to consider the prosecution issue as part of your wider work on this topic (although we
may need to be ready with a quick line of defence).

4) Martin to email AB to explain how we're following up on the meeting, and to reiterate the
invitation to come into 148 to provide wider feedback to the network support teams.
Many thanks for all your help.

Martin

Sent from my iPad

POL-0096613
