POL00116320

POL00116320
From: Paula Vennells{_
Sent: Thur 06/03/2014
To:
Ce: —
GRO a.» Martin
Subject: Re: Working Group meeting tomorrow

None whatsoever. I am in Old St tomorrow and if it helps am happy to come and make the point.

However, I think we should discuss: eg.. Why it is unhelpful and see whether actually letting them publish could
be helpful. And if not, have some good reasons that would resonate with TH and with JA.

What time is your meeting tomorrow?

Sent from my iPhone

On 6 Mar 2014, at 18:39, "Belinda Crowe"

Paula

SS has raised the issue of making their ‘thematic report’ available to MPs in advance of the meeting on
24 March. Ron has suggested that James Arbuthnot has commissioned it although lan is being more
circumspect. This may come up at the Working Group tomorrow.

It would be helpful if we could refer to your meeting with James Arbuthnot, if necessary. Both JFSA and
SS are aware at that meeting but it would be helpful to be able to say that you had reiterated that their
previous work for MPs and on Horizon had been subsumed within their work on the Scheme which now
needed to be their sole focus and, in relation to a report being published in February, James accepted
that would not be possible, that Second Sight needed to keep matters internal while the mediation was
ongoing, it was not helpful to provide a running commentary and that there was a need now to focus on
delivering the Scheme. You did accept that there could be a report at the end.

(The italics are direct lifts from the note of the meeting)

Hopefully this will not be necessary but it would be good to know whether you would have any
objections to our doing so if needed.

Best wishes
Belinda

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

POL00116320
POL00116320
