POLO0108065
POL00108065

Message
From: Paula Vennells !

on behalf of Paula Vennells !

Sent: 27/08/2013 0
To: Theresa lles
Subject: Fwd: Project Sparrow - weekly update - priviledged

Ppo and BF for steering meeting this week. Thx P
Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

From: Susan Crichton
Date: 27 August 2013
To: Paula Vennells <

Paula your queries answered in red.

Susan

From: Paula Vennells

Sent: 23 August 2013 19:00

To: Susan Crichton

Cc: Andy Holt; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Subject: Re: Project Sparrow - weekly update

Susan, thanks. A really clear note. Noted below some queries (IN CAPS)

Paula

Sent from my iPad

On 23 Aug 2013, at 18:24, "Susan Crichton"

Paula - here is the update from this week. Key is the launch of the mediation scheme
on Tues morning and the resulting press interest, Ruth is going to include this as part of
the Board briefing with the details as to strike action.

Mediation Process Launch
¢  <l--[if !supportLists]--><!{endif]-->In line with the Steering Board and the
Working Group we have agreed the Mediation Pack and press release will
launch on Tuesday 27° .
e — <!--[if !supportLists]--><!{endif]-->The Working Group have agreed to extend the
submission date to 18"* November as the date for launch has been pushed
back, so that SPMRs have enough time to submit their applications.

POL-0110929
<!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->Angela has sent the final version of the
Mediation Pack to you separately.
<!--{if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->The pack will be distributed to via JFSA,
Shoosmiths, JA MPs, BIS MPs and those sent directly to the Post Office.
<!--[if |supportLists]--><![endif]-->Press release includes positive comments
from JA. THOUGHT WE MIGHT BE EXPECTING ONE FROM JFSA?
<!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->Our communications team will contact
interested media parties to inform them of the launch. This allows us to control
the message with media outlets.
o. <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->Press statement will be sent to media
who have covered Horizon on the 27" August
0 <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->An Article will be posted on the
intranet (employees) and on subspace online (for subpostmasters) on
the 27" August
0 <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->Branch Focus and In the Loop that go
out the week of the 27" to include an item covering the press release
<!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->Finding and agreeing a panel of independent
advisors continues so that we can provide a mix of legal and accounting support
for SPMRs with good geographical coverage. IS THIS PROVING DIFFICULT? We
are making progress so hopefully we will be successful
<!-[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->Planning for the 5"" Sept training day for
independent advisors and mediators is progressing. IF WE DON'T GET ENOUGH
ADVISORS......? it looks like we will have enough to make the training session
successful.
<!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->Following your steer Angela is looking at how
she brings in additional support to ensure she is fully effective in her role. GOOD
- PLS MAKE SURE YOU PICK UP WITH CHRIS RE EXCEPTIONAL ACCOUNTING
QUERY Yes will do.

Working Party Terms of Reference

.

<!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->Working Party TOR — | have common
agreement on this with one exception. SS believe they should have a voting
right on the Working Party and JFSA disagree. | am managing this to conclusion
and expect we will end up with a compromise where SS will get a vote until we
have an independent chair is in place. | will keep you informed on the outcome.
CAREFUL YOU DON'T SET A PRECEDENT - A CHAIR MIGHT FIND IT DIFFICULT TO
UNDO. DO BOND DICKINSON HAVE A VIEW? BD have suggested this as a
compromise, it may need JA to step in if we cannot manage this we will pick
this up this week.

Independent Chair

<!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->We currently have three potential candidates
for the independent chair: | will talk to Will next week and get his input.

<!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->As disused at our one to one | will let you have
a pack with the TOR for the Working Group, JD for the independent chair and
brief CV’s for the proposed candidates. You will then discuss with Alice for
feedback and | have suggested that you and Alasdair will meet 2 or 3 candidates
with a view to finding a candidate who can then meet with JFSA and possibly JA
(depending on his view) and Alice.

<!--[if |supportLists]--><![endif]-->The view of the Working Party (WHO
PARTICULARLY) Kay Linnell is that the JFSA, JA and Alice should all be involved
in reviewing the candidates (update following conversation with Kay) THINK WE

POLO0108065
POL00108065

POL-0110929
POLO0108065
POL00108065

THOUGHT WE SHOULD KEEP ALICE CLEAR OF THIS, SO THERE IS AN ESCALATION
POINT? Agreed

Improvement Work stream
°  <!--[if IsupportLists]--><![endif]-->Continue to review “as is” processes. Work
this week has focused on ATMs, Santander and Mails area. Next weeks will
focus on Contract and Cash teams. NEED A BIT MORE EXPOSURE TO THIS PLS.
2/3 BULLET POINTS AS PER OTHER WORKSTREAMS. Yes we will add more detail
on this.

Legal and Adjudication of future case

°  <l--[if !|supportLists]--><![endif]-->1 am waiting for a meeting (either last week of
August or first week of September) with Brian Altman QC. The QC will provide
an initial steer on the process for existing cases. This session will be the first
step in helping us define a process for future cases. We will need to review the
current plan once we have this steer. IS THIS REF PROSECUTING
AUTHORITY? Yes a recommendation on that will be one of the outputs from this
work, also important to have oversight over the process with regard to the
review of our criminal prosecutions

e  <!--[if lsupportLists]--><![endif]-->We are urgently working with our external
firms to identify an independent expert to provide evidence on the Horizon
system. PREVIOUSLY THIS WAS PROVIDED BY FUJITSU? WHY MOVE FROM THIS?
DO WE HAVE TO VALIDATE FUJITSU?

We are concerned that this needs to be independent rather than FJ
verifying its own system. Happy to explain rationale further at our steering
board meeting this week.

Technology
e  <!--[if lsupportLists]--><![endif]-->Possible changes have been identified which

Angela will review and approve. A workshop to review the
requirements/solutions with Fujitsu has been planned for the first week of
September.

Regards

Susan

POL-0110929
