POL00021441
POL00021441

Post Office Limited
ARC Committee Meeting

MINUTES OF A MEETING OF THE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE HELD ON
TUESDAY 23" NOVEMBER 2017 AT 20 FINSBURY SREET, LONDON EC2Y 9AQ AT 11.15AM

Present: Carla Stent Chair (CS)
Richard Callard Non-Executive Director (RC)
Tim Franklin Independent Non-Executive Director (TF)
Ken McCall Senior Independent Director (KM)
Item
In Attendance: Paula Vennells Group Chief Executive (CEO)
Alisdair Cameron — Chief Financial and Operations Officer
(CFOO)
Jane MacLeod General Counsel & Company Secretary
(Secretary) (JM)
Marla Balicao Minute Secretary (MB)
Ashish Singh Head of Risk (AS)
Nick Kennett Chief Executive Financial Services and (item 2)
Telecommunications (NK)
Tim Armit Business Continuity Manager (TA) (item 4.5)
Rob Houghton Group Chief Information Officer (RH) (item 4.6,
4,7)
Mick Mitchell IT Security and Service Director (MM) (item 4.6)
Jules Harris Head of Information Protection and (item 5)
Assurance (JH)
Johann Appel Senior Manager Internal Audit (JA) (item 7)
Peter McIver Ernst & Young (PM) (item 8)
Claire Johnson Ernst & Young (C3) (item 8)
Michael Passmore Group Financial Controller (MP) (item
4,1,8)
Mark Dixon Head of Treasury, Tax and Insurance (MD) (item 9)
Apologies: None
ACTION
1. WELCOME AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST

A quorum being present, the Chair opened the meeting. The Directors declared
that they had no conflicts of interest in the matters to be considered at the meeting
in accordance with the requirements of section 177 of the Companies Act 2006 and
the Company's Articles of Association.

2. POMS ARC REPORT (VERBAL UPDATE)

2A The Chair welcomed Nick Kennett to the meeting to provide a verbal update on the
work of the POMS Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee (ARC).

2.2 NK reported that POMS had not had a recent ARC meeting, with one due in

December but a Board Strategy session had been held earlier in the week which
looked at the strategy for the next 5 years and took into account a comprehensive
market assessment. Once finalised, POMS management will share the strategy
with POL.

Strictly Confidential

POL-0018071
2.3

2.4

2.5

2.6

2.8

3.1

POL00021441
POL00021441

Post Office Limited
ARC Committee Meeting

NK reported the oversight of the AR relationship of POL remains the highest rated
out of tolerance risk, with a further paper due at the POMS ARC in December. The
key areas of focus for the POMS ARC were the contractual arrangements (in
particular the MSA and Distribution Agreement) , controls over fitness and
propriety of POL staff selling POMS products, training and competencies within the
branch network and the arrangements for oversight of in branch sales.

NK noted the dependency by POMS on the EUM project for the significant
enhancement of controls relating to fitness and propriety, training and competence
and the ability to track MI to individual staff members which POMS believes is an
important component of their overall process for ensuring compliance,

EUM has proved to be a complex implementation, particularly given the
dependency on data held through SuccessFactors, which in turn is migrating from
HRSAP. In response to a question from the Chair, NK advised that if EUM was
unable to deliver overall solution by the targeted June 2018 delivery date, POMS
would have to consider requiring POL to cease selling POMS products in branch.
NK noted that in the event of a delay in delivery there may be manual interventions
which could avoid an adverse outcome, and that the EUM project was reviewing its
contingency plans to ensure this possibility was addressed. The Chair noted that
this project needed continual close oversight and asked that NK provide an
update of the POMS position to the January 2018 ARC.

NK reported on the renewals issue and he explained that following the introduction
of new legislation which took effect from April 2017; a number of expiring travel
insurance customers would subsequently have received non-compliant letters.
Following discussions with the FCA 6,687 letters were sent to policy holders who
had received the wrong letter and had renewed their POMS travel insurance policy.
Following the issue of these further letters, there had been minimal customer
response and POMS believes that the issue is closed with the regulator.

Key projects:

(a) GDPR - the project is being led by POL, The POMS ARC has requested an
update on GDPR progress at its December meeting, with a further more
comprehensive update at its first meeting in 2018. The POMS Board notes
the importance of successfully implementing GDPR against tight timescales.
In particular it notes the importance of maximising access to data across POL
and POMS in order to deliver the POMS strategy.

(b) IDD - delivery is tight; the legislation comes into effect in February 2018,
and POMS must be able to demonstrate compliance within 12 months.

(c) Vulnerable Customers —-POMS is developing a vulnerable customer policy
consistent with FCA expectations and aligned with the POL policy. A paper
on the approach will be going to the POMS Board in December.

MINUTES OF THE MEETING HELD ON 25th SEPTEMBER 2017, MATTERS
ARISING AND ACTIONS LIST

The minutes of the meeting held on 25th September 2017 were approved as
presented and the Chair of the Committee was authorised to sign them as a true
record,

Strictly Confidential

POL-0018071

NK

2

3.2

41

4.2

4.3

POL00021441

POL00021441

Post Office Limited
ARC Committee Meeting

The actions status report was noted as accurate.
MANAGEMENT OF KEY OPERATIONAL RISKS
Financial Reporting & Control Update

The Committee received the Financial Reporting Controls Report and AC took
questions on the report. The Committee asked to AC to explain Appendix 2 to
the Report (“EY control findings with assigned owners and deadlines”) and in
particular his level of confidence that the remediation activity would be
undertaken by the specified dates. AC confirmed that he was confident delivery
was on track.

Financial Services Conduct

The Committee noted the report and in particular, that although there was a red
rating for mystery shopping results, Bol was comfortable with the remediation
plan.

Change

The Committee noted the report and the following points were discussed:

(a) AC reported that starting in the next financial year quarterly reports would
be submitted to UKGI which would include updates on implementation of
change activity. As a result, management and Board oversight of change
was being reviewed and strengthened. A pilot report would be
submitted to the January Board and this should assist in aligning
with management reporting.

(b) The Committee challenged the governance of ‘Change’ projects and queried
how management ensured that the change portfolio was properly
prioritised; the Committee was also concerned that there seemed to be a
significant number of projects where delivery had been delayed. AC
responded that the portfolio management team was being strengthened and
work was underway to ensure more effective prioritisation and greater
certainty around delivery and benefit realisation.

(c) The Chair asked if there were effective reporting and management tools with
controls in place. AC responded that there are reporting tools and controls
however these are not operating effectively, and he was concerned about
slippage across all programmes. In particular, management needed to
reinforce the requirement that issues should be flagged as they arose, even
if at that time appropriate remediation plans had not been developed. but
this has been flagged. The Committee asked for a further update on
‘Change’ implementation to be brought back to the ARC in January.

(d) The Committee also requested that a ‘lessons learned’ be
undertaken regarding SuccessFactors and for the project sponsor to
report these back to the Committee.

(e) AC noted that the back office transformation was still ongoing and was
complicated by the fact that Post Office was dependent on out of date
applications and systems and the migration of these to current versions was
proving more challenging than originally contemplated. The Committee

Strictly Confidential

AC/

RH

MK

3

POL-0018071
4.4

POL00021441

POL00021441

Post Office Limited
ARC Committee Meeting

queried what level of confidence it should have in the target dates for
completion as the report shows it moving to November.

Financial Crime

4.5 & Business Continuity Planning and IT Disaster Recovery

4.6

Tim Armit (‘TA’), Rob Houghton (‘RH’) and Mick Mitchell (‘MM’) joined the meeting
as both agenda items would be covered together.

(a)

(b)

TA reported that in the previous two weeks there had been a significant
number of material incidents including 3 DDOS attacks, AEI failure and
issues with the POCA contact centre being overwhelmed with high call
volumes. He noted that the Business Protection Team (BPT) had worked
well and addressed the issues quickly, and that the communication process
had worked effectively. PV noted that communications and information had
worked well and was a good test of how we can cope in these situations.

RH provided more details around the three IT related issues:

(i)

These attacks were industrialised robotic attacks to the
postoffice.co.uk site. Security responses had been increased after
each attack and the Government cyber-security team had been
informed. Work was underway to determine if there was any rationale
as to why Post Office was identified, however he noted that such
attacks were becoming more common across industry. KM asked if
we have discussed this with RMG to see whether they had
been experiencing similar attacks. RH said he would follow up
on this. The Chair asked if there was anything else needed to assist
the IT function to address the issues? RH responded that he was in
discussions with Verizon to determine whether further protection was
available.

AEI Failure

Gi)

Gemalto (who provide the software for AEI machines) had released a
regular security patch that had inadvertently prevented access to 115
biometric verification booths. The resulting issue could then only be
resolved through manual visits, and there were only 16 qualified
engineers that could provide this service. RH explained that this was
a control failure on Gemalto’s part as they should have tested the
patch before releasing on the AEI machines. PV has written to their
CEO as this is high profile government work with customer critical

Strictly Confidential

IM/
ss

RH

4
POL-0018071
POL00021441
POL00021441

Post Office Limited
ARC Committee Meeting

SLAs. RH will be looking at the contractual breach and reassurances

that further planned patches will be properly tested. The current

contract is not due for renewal till 2020 and we will consider what
remedies are available to us. The Committee requested an RH/JM
update on what contractual remedies are available.

(iii) Due to a letter sent out to POCA customers in accordance with
regulatory requirements under the Payment Services Directive, the
customer contact centre was inundated with so many calls that it was
unable to cope with call volumes for more than a week. It has
highlighted that we could not cope with the number of calls on one
platform and are now running on BT and Horizon platforms as a
contingency. RH summed up that there were two major learning
points:

e Capacity forecasting and design to address unexpected volumes;
and

« Recovery planning, as in this case it took too long and there were
no contingency plans.

The Committee asked if they could be given comfort that the = RH

PO would not be left vulnerable during the holiday season. MM

noted that there was a change freeze from 23rd November in place

and IT management team are focusing on cover during the peak

holiday season. KM emphasised that this should include assurances

from suppliers that they are also able to support over the peak

periods.

(c) The Committee commented that they had not had an update on remediation
activity in relation to the joiners/ leavers process and that this remained an
unacceptable risk. RH clarified that a comprehensive solution required both
IT and business processes in order to work effectively. From an IT
perspective he is now confident that if IT are told of a new leaver, then
accounts will be de-activated and access will be promptly removed. Further,
if an account was inactive for 40 days then it would be automatically
suspended. RH noted that a manual reconciliation was undertaken on a
weekly basis. KM noted his concerns over this and asked for next steps,
actions, responsibility and business ownership. PV noted that a separate
paper on this would be provided for the next meeting. The Chair
requested that the CEO oversee the corrective actions required to
resolve the issues and embed the changes over the next 90 days.
RH and TA should carry out spot checks every quarter and that
business owners need to take responsibility here for this ongoing
cycle

(d) Inrelation to implementation of the actions arising from the Deloitte security
audit, progress had been made against all actions including encryption and
procurement of the SOC, however further work remained. MM noted that a
supplier for the SOC had been identified and the contract was being
finalised. RH noted that it was important to get the contract right, and that
once in place implementation could begin.

Pv/

RH/
TA

(e) TA noted that the Chesterfield recovery solution with Sungard is in place
and has been tested and although functional, is clunky and slow. Further

Strictly Confidential
5

POL-0018071
4.7

5.1

5.2

5.3

71

POL00021441

POL00021441

Post Office Limited
ARC Committee Meeting

testing will be undertaken in early 2018 to ensure these issues are
addressed. The ARC asked to be kept informed of progress.

TA left the meeting.

IT Control Update

The Committee noted the report.
INFORMATION SECURITY

Deep Dive on Information Security
Jules Harris joined the meeting. The Committee noted the report.

Information Security and IT Security Policies Review
JH noted that the Committee was requested to approve two policies:

* Acceptable Use Policy Cyber and
* Information Security Policy.

JH reported that these policies had been reviewed by the R&CC in November 2017
and were required to be reviewed annually. Both polices have been rewritten in
the new template format and further work to communicate the policies is
underway. JM added that there will be a wider communication piece to be rolled
out with a range of different types of tools with the focus on information rather
than IT. The Chair asked at what point would we be able to form a view that the
cultural aspects had been embedded and were working, and whether this could
be reviewed by Internal Audit? JA noted that IA are validating actions but should
be able to provide a view following implementation of the final actions which are
targeted for June. The Chair asked for an update in March. PV noted a
further update should be provided for the ARC in January ahead of the
Internal Audit review in June.

JH requested the Committee to approve the two policies. The Chair requested
that the definitions should be reviewed and checked to ensure they were
consistent across both polices. The Committee asked what would be the
consequence to non-compliance of these two policies. In response to this

{ was resolved that the two policies were approved by the
Committee.

JH, MM, RH left the meeting.
RISK UPDATE

The Committee noted the report.
INTERNAL AUDIT

JA presented his report and provided the following highlights:

(a) The internal audit plan has not changed however some changes will be made
to the change assurance around certain projects: in particular paragraph 9 of
his report shows the table of planned audits and reason for change, which
included 2 additional reviews on back office transformation, 1 clarification on

Strictly Confidential

TA

JH

JH

6
POL-0018071
(b)

POL00021441

POL00021441

Post Office L

imited

ARC Committee Meeting

the POLSAP project, and 1 postponed review relating to the effectiveness of
the gating process as this needs to be reviewed in light of the proposed
changes to Change Management. He also noted that 2 placeholders had been
included for Project Panther and Customer Hub.

JA stated that independent reviews would be undertaken on SucessFactors in
two phases.

- Phase 1 ~ to review if there are any residual risks to ‘go live’ and
- Phase 2 - Deep dive into lessons learned.

AC noted that this had been discussed at the GE and that management
supported this phasing. The Chair asked JA if he had sufficient resources to
undertake the various reviews that had been identified. JA noted that a
team member had recently given notice to resigned and JA had started the
recruitment process for a replacement, but overall was comfortable with
resourcing through access under the Co-source arrangements with Deloitte
and PwC,

The Committee approved the changes to the Audit plan.

FINANCIAL REPORTING AND DISCLOSURE

External Audit Plan

Peter Mclver and Claire Johnson presented their Audit Planning report and
highlighted the following:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

The overview of their 2018 audit strategy would focus primarily on the
following areas of risk:

- Improper revenue recognition

- Classification of capital and investment items

- Impairment of goodwill and long-lived items

- Capitalisation and disposal of fixed assets

- Valuation of the provision for Postmaster compensation

- Risk of management over-rides

- Pension valuation and disclosure

- Legal claims, including the Postmaster litigation

- Calculations of Network cash, and

- VAT accounting.

It was noted that materiality was based on revenue rather than on the
profit/loss impact and was therefore set again at £9.27m (1% of annualised
revenue), performance materiality was £4.63m and audit differences of
£463k. The Committee were asked to authorise the materiality levels and
this was confirmed.

PM had had a meeting with Michael Passmore’s team to discuss the level of
transformation that had taken place and to determine whether the systems
were ready for testing.

The EY team remains unchanged apart the addition of a new senior audit
manager.

Strictly Confidential

7

POL-0018071
8.2

10.

10.1

10.2

POL00021441

POL00021441

Post Office L
ARC Committee M

(e) PM noted that the next report would be in March. The Committee requested
that where possible, the audit work should be undertaken as promptly as
possible to relieve pressure on the team at year end. PM noted that a
discussion was still required on the proposed audit fees.

Management Letter

The Committee noted the Management letter provided by EY.

TAX UPDATE

Mark Dixon joined the meeting and presented the tax update and strategy paper.
He informed the Committee that following the Finance Act 2016 companies are
required to publish their tax strategy on their website so it is freely available to
the public. Post Office Limited is required to publish its tax strategy by no later
than 31 March 2018, and HMRC had issued guidelines to assist business comply
with this new requirement. The Committee asked if any other companies had
already published their tax strategy. MD noted that Post Office had engaged
Grant Thornton to advise on this, however there were relatively few companies
which have, as yet, made their tax strategies public, however we are monitoring
the position.

The Committee approved the proposed Tax Strategy and noted the Tax Update.

ANY OTHER BUSINESS

imited
leeting

The Chair noted that she would provide an update of the Committee’s business tc

the POL Board which was meeting later in the day.

There being no further business the Chairman declared the meeting closed at
13:30pm.

Strictly Confidential

8
POL-0018071
