POL00295498
POL00295498

In Strictest Confidence

Paula Vennells — Brief for meeting with Will Gibson August 2012

1. Network

NT - Latest Numbers Open— 195 Locals
31 Mains

5907 branches have responded to the estate survey:

1128 (19%) Request to leave
2567 (43%) Stay as is
2212 (38%) Request to convert

On Crowns — activity continuing to plan. Latest developments;

o Further 5 tactical pilot branches to test elements of the Premier branch model
implemented at the end of July, including staff training, mails migration to Post &
Go kiosks and associated efficiencies of staff hour reduction (locations are The
Galleries (Bristol), St Andrews Cross (Plymouth), High St (Croydon) and
Clapham Common, Cambridge). Old Street Branch has also undergone
changes similar to Birmingham creating additional space that was required
following the introduction of the UKBA service.

o Birmingham phase 2 has gone live -encompassing further physical changes in
branch, introduction of extended opening hours and creation of open plan travel
desks.

o The VR exercise for 186 Crown branches closes 6 August. We are on track to
release the required FTE but we won't have the definitive picture until after the
final acceptances/rejections have been processed tomorrow.

o The next phase of VR i.e. the remaining 184 branches and the branch
management community is on track to commence mid-August.

o Eagle has now been signed. The income from Eagle is a key component in the
journey back to profit for the Crowns.

2. Consumer Focus

e Discussions on an MoU for the NT programme have led to a substantively
agreed document covering consultation / communication / customer
engagement for the differing types of change (onsite and offsite Locals and
Mains) — but there are two unresolved points holding up agreement;

- Consumer Focus wants the onsite Locals customer engagement to be
explicitly regarded as a ‘consultation’.

- Consumer Focus want a feed of information on prospective individual
cases before the Stage 2 meeting at which the subpostmaster
substantially commits to the change ( i.e. it wants information within a
period where POL has given assurances to the agent that tentative
discussions are wholly confidentially and material would not be passed
to a third party)
POL00295498
POL00295498

In Strictest Confidence

We are now escalating matters — initially to a meeting that Kevin Gilliland is
having with Consumer Focus w/c 13 August — and then potentially to a Paula
/Mike O’Connor meeting. We are working to ensure that these matters are
resolved by the proposed MoU start date of 1 September.

Consumer Focus has launched a consultation (alongside Citizens Advice) on
the ‘design principles for the ‘Regulated Industries Unit’ (the structure that
Consumer Focus will create to take forward the Consumer role for regulated
industries (postal, energy, water) once CF has been disbanded and folded into
Citizens Advice). Paula has a meeting on this on 3 September with Mike
O'Connor, Gillian Guy (Chief Exec Citizens Advice) and Tracey Webb
(Consumer Advocacy — BIS). We are determining our approach — but an overall
view is that POL is not a regulated industry as such and therefore this
Regulated Industries Unit should not be placed in a monitoring role over it as
though it were a regulated industry. There will be a recognised ongoing
consumer network transformation role that should continue throughout the
length of the NT programme. POL recognises the importance of good links
between the Business and consumer representation bodies — and there will be
reflection of this in the consumer role in the mutualisation discussions that are
being taken forward separately. We will have to pursue a careful line in the
consultation about this Regulated Industries Unit — avoiding creating any
hostages to avoid a future of multiple, criss crossing consumer monitoring
structures that our competitors don’t face whilst also demonstrating that we
recognise the value of consumer representation mechanisms. MG will be
providing a separate brief to Paula prior to the 3 Sept meeting.

3. Update on Select Committee

BIS Select Committee position. Following the report — BIS is now starting to
draft a response which it would expect to send back to the committee mid
September. Mike Whitehead /Peter Batten have met Mike Granville / Martin
Humphreys on the approach to this response and they are currently liaising on
the material needed. It is expected that resultant drafts can circulate within POL
and BIS wic 3 Sept.

Given the Select Committee’s comments on mutualisation, the response will
need to make some reference that subject. I understand that Alice has spoken
to Will setting out her view. BIS should not be tempted to say more than has
already been said in the Government response to its consultation recognising
that there will probably be some tension between the desire to show that POL is
making progress and not committing to specifics before the POL Board has
considered some of the mutualisation challenges in more detail on the basis of
the work it has commissioned.

Arbuthnot activity — arrangements have been made with James Arbuthnot’s
office to refer through cases suggested by MP’s for review to him — which would
then be sent to Second Sight. It is not yet clear how many cases will be involved
but we believe that it currently remains in single figures (although it may yet
grow).
POL00295498
POL00295498

In Strictest Confidence

4. Front Office

A monthly meeting was held on 30 July with BIS (which Will attended) with
Martin Moran, Kevin Seller, Sally Meacham and Mike Granville. This covered the
following;

- DVLA - on track but no complacency. In heading towards an end
September decision

- On Local Government, - discussion on getting the right commercial /
political balance. Important that we show progress at the Autumn events
(the 25 Pathfinder review and Scottish review) alongside recognition that
we must use marketing resource where it gets best return.

- Running through the FooG ‘pipeline’ to indicate general progress.

Overall a positive meeting — but the BIS desire to more closely monitor FooG
numbers is clear- they have suggested a detailed monthly ‘;dashboard’ which
we are currently considering

Kevin Seller has sent a separate update to you on Universal Credit giving the
latest picture

5. Financial Services / Eagle

Nick will have kept you up to date on Eagle and its signing. Overall, the processes for,
and reaction to, this have worked as we and BIS would have desired. Clearly we are
grateful for BIS for their constructive role in the process.

6. External Comms position

Mark Davies has now met Will — useful meeting

Media responses to the Select Committee report and Network Report were
reasonable. The Network Report in particular now gives us an opportunity to
build proactive comms using it as a reference point.- enabling a further proactive
push in the Autumn (potential DVLA, half year, NT branches opening, build to
Xmas)

October will also see a further internal comms push with subpmrs around NT —
emphasising the positive opportunities and increasing roll out.

EAGLE media has gone well to date (from Friday announcement). Gold medal
stamps media very positive.

7. Mutualisation
POL00295498
POL00295498

In Strictest Confidence

« We have the first meeting of the POL Programme Board on 15 August. The Board
will consider scoping papers on 4 work streams:

e Culture

e Policy

e Finance

e Governance

Once agreed by the Programme Board, the proposals will be presented to the
Mutualisation Sub-Committee of the POL Board, although some work will be started in
anticipation of approval by the Sub-Committee, especially in relation to finance (and the
pros and cons of mutualisation) as this work has already been commissioned from
Rothschild.

Specific points of interest for Will

Will is keen to understand the process for starting the work and keep the Minister
updated. Whilst we are happy to keep ShEx updated informally, we are keen not to pre-
empt decisions of the Programme Board and the Sub-Committee as our proposals may
change as a result of input by either or both of those bodies. We have agreed to
monthly meetings to keep ShEx informed of progress.

Will is aware of the creation of the Programme Board and we have discussed the
possibility of a seat on the Board for ShEx. His input might be useful and we may want
to invite him onto the Board in the future.

Stakeholder Forum

A briefing pack of proposals for next steps has been provided separately from Belinda

We have a meeting of expert advisors on 20 August. The aim is to make contact with
members of the stakeholder forum as soon as possible after that meeting.

Will has offered to attend the meeting of experts and may make that offer to you. It
may be useful to have him there to put the Government perspective on the forum
although it is important that the forum is clearly POL led and owned.
