UKGI00001764
UKGI00001764

From: Swinson MPST[/O=DTI/OU=DTIHQ/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=SWINSONMPST]

Sent: Mon 08/07/2013 7:25:06 PM (UTC)

To: sevens

Ce:

PAD Cable
i GRO Boughen

Aileen (Communic: Balakrishnan Angela
(Communications)f Fearon-Low Nic
(Communications) i

Subject: Re: Arbuthnot

Will, Mike

How did the meeting go this eve? Jo heard from Tessa that James A is confident of getting a UQ. We'll need to contact
govt whips / lib dem whips in the morning on if there's anything more we can do to avoid this.

Justin / lan - What is the process here? Namely what time would james need to submit this, what time does it get
decided and can either us or whips make any representations to the speaker on why we disagree (fomally or
informally)?

Thanks

Emily

From: Swinson MPST

Sent: Sunday, July 07, 2013 08:31 PM

To: Gibson Will (ShEx)

Cc: Whitehead Mike (ShEx); Batten Peter (ShEx); Swinson MPST; Cable MPST
Subject: RE: Arbuthnot

Thanks Will, that's really helpful.

I think we should also be ready to go with a short update note for the Whips in the morning probably after the JS/JA conversation.
My view would be to include chronology of next steps; efforts made to reach out to JA, incl. the offer of a joint statement and if
there are things POL is doing he has suggested; and reinforcing operational nature / how it doesn't directly relate to HMG policy.

The Whips can then decide if / at what point a conversation with the Chief Whip is necessary.
Thanks

Emily

From: Gibson Will (ShEx)

Sent: 06 July 2013 13:36

To: Swinson MPST

Cc: Whitehead Mike (ShEx); Batten Peter (ShEx)
Subject: Re: Arbuthnot

Hi Emily,

1. We think JA will get the draft on Monday morning. He may already have seen an under the table copy and has at least
been talked through its contents already.
UKGI00001764
UKG1I00001764

2. No further info re teaser - was apparently a throwaway line in his meeting with Paula yesterday PM. Would be
surprising if he did media Monday AM as details of the report will be embargoed until 6. Can't be completely ruled out
though, sadly...

3. Timing of POL/JFSA statement will depend on likely JA stance. If felt likely he'll go too far then they're more likely to
go earlier than him to get ahead of story. If he's in a good place then they'll go together around 6.

4. As operational matters from what's only an initial report, I'd suggest we keep our line reactive.
5. On the JA call with Jo on Thurs it was suggested they speak again so a call from you guys shouldn't be a surprise.

6. We've had no further intel about his intentions around urgent questions. The fact he's still suggesting past convictions
should be reviewed means it remains a possibility. Flip side is Parly unit suggest quesion is less likely to be granted air
time if it doesn't relate directly to HMG policy (ie as it's an operational matter we're not directly involved in).

We'll call you guys first thing Monday with the latest update on developments.
will.

From: Swinson MPST

Sent: Friday, July 05, 2013 06:33 PM

To: Gibson Will (ShEx)

Cc: Whitehead Mike (ShEx); Batten Peter (ShEx)
Subject: RE: Arbuthnot

Hi Will
Thanks for this - Claire has left for the day and I'll pass this on to Jo.

A few qs from me:

Has JA now seen a copy of the report?
Did you have a sense of whether the teaser statement will be media appearances on Monday morning, before his fuller
statement as early as noon? Did he say anything express on this?

What time is the POL/JFSA statement? Will Govt say anything proactively around / just after this?
Is JA expecting a call from our office to set up the call with Jo Monday morning?

It looks like he is relatively pleased with the handling approach, so presume he hasn't given any further hint of an urgent
question?

You'll know from Claire that Stephen Crabb phoned earlier today - there's still concern as to the handling of this and whether a
conversation between JA and the Chief Whip may be necessary. I said we'd keep him updated of timing of next steps and a
conversation between JA and Jo - I think we'd need to keep them appraised first thing Monday morning (and ideally before JA
says anything publicly on Monday morning).

Thanks

Emily

From: Gibson Will (ShEx)
Sent: 05 July 2013 17:50

To: Swinson MPST

Cc: Whitehead Mike (ShEx); Batten Peter (ShEx)
Subject: Arbuthnot
UKGI00001764
UKG1I00001764

Hi Claire,

As just discussed, a few bullets for Jo with a readout from POL of their latest meeting with James Arbuthnot and
suggested lines for a call with James on Monday morning

Readout

© Positive meeting between Paula and James Arbuthnot this afternoon.

© He's pleased with the approach POL is suggesting to pick up issues identified in the report, and particularly
pleased POL and the JFSA are proposing to work closely together on this.

© But at some stages in the meeting he did seem to be sticking to his guns on seeking a full review of previous
SPM convictions (while at other stages he apparently seemed to row back).

© Heis also unwilling to join POL and the JFSA's joint statement and will be doing his own statement (likely a
teaser on Monday morning first thing saying MPs are receiving the report that afternoon, then a fuller statement
later in the day, which he apparently suggested could be going out as early as noon).

© POL has offered to provide a quote for James' fuller statement so should get at least some advance notice of
its content.
© POL is also sharing its draft comms with us.

Next steps

© Suggest Jo speaks to JA on Monday morning (ie before JA statement is sent out)
© On that call suggested lines to take as follows:
= As discussed last week, calling for update on the Second Sight investigation
" Officials have been in touch with POL on this
= Glad report concludes no systemic issue with Horizon software
= Please to see POL and JFSA are collaborating well to take steps to address process/training issues (eg
forming user forum)
= [Thank James for his role in building that collaboration]
= Note need to ensure reports on this are even-handed, since POL is a public asset.
= Keen to avoid a situation where it is implied that SPM convictions are unsafe without reliable evidence that
they may be.

© Also suggest Jo speaks to Tessa Munt in advance of Monday afternoon's MP session (which is at 6PM) to see if
she is able to attend and willing to provide balance if that is lacking in JA's stance.

Any questions from you or Jo, please feel free to give me a shout.

Will Gibson I Executive Director I Shareholder Executive
BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET } GRO

PA! GRO j

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and
higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth
